'\" t
.TH CAL 1 "1995-02-13" LOCAL
.SH NAME
cal \- display a specified month of some year
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.B cal
\&{
.I alphamonth
.MW |
.RI [ month ]
.I year
.MW |
.I year/month
\&}
.I -\fInumber\fP
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.SS Introduction
.PP
The CAL program
is used to print out (to standard output) a calendar of a month
that is specified as an argument.
If a month is specified alone (as in the case with
.I alphamonth
), it must consist of non-numeric
characters.
This is necessary in order to distinguish it from a year being
specified.
Anywhere a month is specified, it may also be specified
as a character string representing the month.
All month names can be abbreviated to the first three characters
without any ambiguity.
.\"_
.SS Options
There are some argument options that can be used to
provide values in addition to the standard way of supplying them.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
.BI "-<number>"
A single minus sign followed by a number is interpreted to ispecify
the number of total months to print out, including the starting
month specified with the other arguments (if any).mean that
.TP 15
.BI "-m  " month
This will override any month that is specified using the mornal
arguments.
.TP 15
.BI "-y  " year
This will specify a year to override any that is supplied in
the normal way.
.RE
.\"_
.SS Output
The printed output of this program is identical to that of 
the standard calendar program 
(
.MW cal
)
that is supplied with the UNIX System
.\"_
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
See the standard
.MW cal
program.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
print the the month of May for the current year:
.EX
\f(CWcal May \fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
print out the month of May for the year 2007:
.EX
\f(CWcal May 2007 \fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
print out the month of May for the year 2007:
.EX
\f(CWcal 2007/May \fP
.EE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
cal(1), calendar(1)
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in \fC/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP
or possibly where ever "local" programs are stored on your system.
This is often at
.MW "${LOCAL}/bin"
on some systems.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Note that at least one white-space character must be put
between all option key-letters 
and the associated key-letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
.\"_
