.\"_
.TH EXECNAME 1 1994-12-02 LOCAL
.SH NAME
execname \- run a program with a given name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.B execname
.OP -V ""
.MW path arg0 \fB[\fParg(s) ...\fB]\fP
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.SS Introduction
.PP
This program is used to execute another program with a specified
argument number zero.  Usually, programs executed directly from the
SHELL (for example) have an argument zero passed to them that is the
same as the file path supplied to the SHELL to specify the
program to execute.  With this program, any random argument zero can
be assigned for the execution of a given program.
.\"_
.SS Options
.IP "-V " 10
This option makes the program print out its version and then
exit immediately.
.SS Positional Arguments
The first positional argument is taken as a path to the program
to execute.  The second positional argument is the specified
argument number zero to pass to the newly executed program.
All other rguments after the "argument zero" argument are passed
as arguments to the executed program.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
To execute the program
.MW sleep
but with an argument number zero of 'john', use:
.EX
execname sleep john 10
.EE
This particular example with run the program sleep which will
sleep for ten seconds before exeting.
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
execv(1)
.\"_
.SH CAVEATS
Be careful to put a space between all option key letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
.MW /usr/add-on/local/bin
on most systems.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
