'\" t
.TH ENVWIPE 1 2001-04-26 "Levo Research"
.SH NAME
envwipe \- run a program with a specified environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR envwipe
.OP -e "  envfile" ] [
.OP -V "" ] [
.IR program
.IR arg0
.RI [ arguments(s) ]
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.LP
.SS Introduction
.\"_
The 
.IB envwipe
program
is used on a UNIX system to run another program with
a controlled environment.
This is sometimes necessary in order to get a precise and
repeatable instruction execution trace of the program.
Precise instruction execution traces are useful for comparison
with the execution of the same program on other machine platforms,
like simulators.
This program is essentially the same as the
.IB execname
program that is commonly used for starting programs in
multi-architecture computer environments.
The difference is that no environment variables are passed
to the target program by default.
.PP
Two arguments to the program are always required.
These are the program to execute (its file path) and the
first (or zeroth) argument to the program.
This second argument forms part of the program environment
so care should be used if it needs to be matched up
with some specific value.
.\"_
.SS Options
.\"_
There is only one important argument option for
the program.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB-e\fP  \fIenvfile\fP
This option allows for the specification of a file that
holds the environment that should be setup for the target
program.  The file should contains lines of the form:
.EX
key=value
.EE
These should look like environment variables being
set by shell programs like Bourne Shell and Korn Shell.
Comments and blank lines are allowed in this file.
Comments are introduced using the pound ('#') character.
Note that full shell-like quoting is not allowed for the
value portion of the variable assignment.
Quoting with the double quote character is allowed.
.TP 15
\fB-V\fP  
This option causes the program to print its program version
to standard error and then the program exits.
.RE
.\"_
.SS Operation
.\"_
The default behavior of the program, when invoked with no
optional arguments, is to execute the target program with
no environment variables and only the arguments that
are specified in addition to the zeroth argument to the program.
If some optional environment is specified, then that
environment is setup for the target program in addition
to the arguments that are specified.
The combination of the program arguments and its environment
form the full user specified environment for the target program.
.\"_
.SS "Environment File"
.\"_
An option file can be specified at program invocation so that
some environment variables can be setup for the target program.
By default, no environment variables are setup for the target
program.
If this file is given with the 
.MW -e
option, then any environment variables given in the file will
be passed to the target program.
The format of this file consists of key-value pairs.
This is similar to how environment variables are assigned
in the Bourne and Korn shell programs.
Entries are of the form:
.EX
key=value
.EE
The value can be quoted with double quotes if it contains
any white space.
Blank lines in this file are ignored as well as all
lines that are introduced with the pound ('#') character.
Also, the value is taken to only be the first white-space
terminated string after the equals-sign character.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"_
.IP \(rh 5
run the SpecInt program
.IB compress
with its first argument being the string
.MW compress
.EX
\f(CWenvwipe /proj/levo/benchmarks/bin/compress compress\fP
.EE
.\"_
.IP \(rh 5
run the SpecInt program
.IB compress
with its first argument being the string
.MW compress
 ; its environment should be setup according to that which is
found in the file
.MW envfile
located in the current directory
.EX
\f(CWenvwipe -e envfile /proj/levo/benchmarks/bin/compress compress\fP
.EE
.\"_
.SH CAVEATS
.\"_
This program is useful for executing a program with precise
environment.  This can be used to compare execution traces
of the same program run on different platforms.
The goal is to have the program traces be precisely identical.
Note that other factors that cannot be controlled by this
program can come into play such that the instruction
execution traces are not the same.
Care should be used that the stack area and heap are
setup the same on all machines that are used for comparison
purposes.  Also, the exact arrangement of program environment
data needs to be the same across platforms that are expected
to be compared.
Of course, this is not usually possible when
running programs using a vendor supplied OS.
It is left to the reader to figure out where remaining
differences in OS setup for program execution occurs
and to deal with it in some manner (if possible).
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
execv(1), execname(1), suexec(1), exec(1)
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
\f(CW /usr/add-on/local/bin \fP
or possibly where ever
.IB local
programs are stored on your system.
This is often at
\f(CW "${LOCAL}/bin" \fP
on some systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put at one space between all option key 
letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
.\"_
