.nr X
'\"_
.TH rshe 1 "1995-08-22" "BCS Starbase"
.SH NAME
rshe \- execute a command on a remote machine with local environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.\"_ some AT&T standard strings
.\"_
.if t \{\
.fp5 CW
.ds mW \&\f5
.ds mB \&\f(CB
.ds Tm \v'-0.5m'\s-4TM\s+4\v'0.5m'
.ds Sm \v'-0.5m'\s-4SM\s+4\v'0.5m'
.ds Rg \v'-0.4m'\s-4\(rg\s+4\v'0.4m'
.ds rq ''
.ds lq ``
.tr * \(**
'br\}
.if n \{\
.ds mW \f3
.ds mB \f3
.ds Tm \uTM\d
.ds Sm \uSM\d
.ds Rg (Reg.)
.ds lq \&"
.ds rq \&"
'br\}
.\"_
.\"_ some AT&T standard macros
.\"_
.de HY
.hy14
..
.\"_
.de MW
.nh
.it1 }N
.ie\\n(.$ \{\
.ie\\n(.$=1 \*(mW\&\\$1\fP
.el.ie \\n(.$=2 \*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2\fP
.el.ie \\n(.$=3 \*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3\fP
.el.ie \\n(.$=4 \*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4\fP
.el.ie \\n(.$=5 \*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5\fP
.el.ie \\n(.$=6 \*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6\fP
.el.ie \\n(.$=7 \*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7\fP
.el.ie \\n(.$=8 \*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8\fP
.el\*(mW\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9\fP \}
.el\{\
.ift .ft 5
.ifn .ft 3 \}
.HY
..
.\"_
.de OP
.ie'\\$3'[]' \ \f1[\ \*(mB\\$1\f2\^\\$2\|\f1\ ]
.el\&\\$4\&\*(mB\\$1\fP\f2\^\\$2\|\fP\\$3
..
.\"_
.de EX
.sp\\n(PDu
.in+5n
.ifn .ft 3
.ift \{\
.ft5
.if\\$1-1 \{\
.ps-1
.vs-1
.nreX 1 \}\}
.nf
..
.de EE
.fi
.if\\n(eX \{\
.ps+1
.vs+1
.nreX 0 \}
.ft1
.in-5n
.sp\\n(PDu
..
.\"_
.\"_ end AT&T stuff
.\"_
.B rshe
.OP -l "  rsuer" []
.OP -n "" []
.OP -d "" []
.OP -e " environ_file" []
.OP -x[=[var_list]] "" []
.br
.OP -V "" []
.OP -? "" []
.I hostname
.I command
.\"_
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
BCS Starbase Project on Sun SPARC hardware only, SunOS 4.1.3 or higher,
SunOS 5.4 or higher
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rsh command"  ""  "\fLrsh\fP \(em remote shell"
.IX  "remote shell"  ""  "remote shell \(em \fLrsh\fP"
.IX  "remote system" "shell" "" "shell \(em \fLrsh\fP"
.IX  "shells" "remote" "" "remote \(em \fLrsh\fP"
The 
.B rshe
program connects to the specified
.I hostname
and executes the specified
.IR command .
This program is very similar to the
.B rsh
program and is inspired by it and the 
.B RX
program which is part of the 
.B REXEC
remote execution package (not related to the common Berkley
.B REXEC
daemon)
developed at AT&T Bell Laboratories.
The
.B rshe
program uses the same daemon program on the remote machine as the
.B RSH
program does.  This is both a blessing and a curse.
It is a curse since
the program's behavior is restricted somewhat by the fact
that the same daemon is used as
.B RSH
uses.
It is a blessing because many remote machines now-a-days
will not be running any other remote execution
daemons and we still want to get the best out of an already
bad machine execution environment.
Normally, the entire local environment is sent over to
the remote machine (because this is what is usually
desired in a tightly coupled local machine group) but this
behavior is changed if the
.B "-x"
option is used.
.PP
The
.B rshe
program copies its standard input to the remote command, the standard
output of the remote command to its standard output, and the
standard error of the remote command to its standard error.
Interrupt, quit and terminate signals are propagated to the remote
command;
.B rshe
normally terminates when the remote command does.
.LP
If you omit
.IR command ,
the
.B rshe
program will try to execute whatever your SHELL environment
variable is set to.  If there is not SHELL environment variable,
it will try to execute '/bin/sh'
on the remote machine.
Shell metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted
on the local machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on
the remote machine. 
See
.SM EXAMPLES\s0.
.LP
Hostnames are given in the 
.I hosts
database, which may be contained in the 
\f3/etc/hosts\f1
file,
the Internet domain name database,
or both.
Each host has one official name (the first
name in the database entry)
and optionally one or more nicknames.
Official hostnames or nicknames may be given as
.IR hostname .
.LP
Each remote machine may have a file named
\f3/etc/hosts.equiv\f1
containing a list of trusted hostnames
with which it shares usernames.
Users with the same username on both the local and
remote machine may 
.B rshe
from the machines listed in the remote machine's
\f3/etc/hosts\f1
file.
Individual users may set up a similar private
equivalence list with the file \f3.rhosts\f1
in their home directories.
Each line in this file contains two names: a
.I hostname
and a
.I username
separated by a space.
The entry permits the user named
.I username
who is logged into
.I hostname
to use
.B rshe   
to access the remote machine as the remote user.
If the name of the local host is not found in the
\f3/etc/hosts.equiv\f1 file on the remote machine,
and the local username and hostname are not
found in the remote user's \f3.rhosts\f1
file, then the access is denied.
The hostnames listed in the
\f3/etc/hosts.equiv\f1 and \f3.rhosts\f1
files must be the official hostnames listed in the 
\f3hosts\f1 database;
nicknames may not be used in either of these files.
.LP
.B rshe   
will not prompt for a password if access is denied on the remote machine.
.\"_
.SH OPTIONS
Options can appear anywhere on the command line, either before
or after the specification of the remote host,
but must appear before the specification of
the remote command.  Option key letters can also be freely
concatenated together.  If a concatenated option key requires
an associated value string, it is picked up as the next tokenized
string on the command line.
.TP 15
\f3\-l \f2username\f1
Use
.I username
as the remote username instead of your local username.  In the absence
of this option, the remote username is the same as your local username.
.TP
\f3\-n\f1
Redirect the input of
.B rshe   
to
\f3/dev/null\f1.
You sometimes need this option to avoid
unfortunate interactions between
.B rshe   
and the shell which invokes it.  
For example, if you are running
.B rshe   
and invoke a
.B rshe   
in the background without redirecting its input
away from the terminal, it will block even if no reads
are posted by the remote command.  
The
\f3\-n\f1
option will prevent this.
.TP
\f3\-x[=[var_list]]\f1
The
.B "-x"
option is used to send some local environment variables over
to the remote system instead of all of the local environment
variables.  This is useful where local environment variables,
like
.B PATH
and
.B LD_LIBRARY_PATH
may not have the proper meaning on the remote system.
If the 
.B "-x"
option is NOT specified, then the local environment variable 
.B RXPORT
(another inspiration of the AT&T 
.B REXEC
package) is consulted for a list of local environment variables
to send over to the remote machine.
This variable is ONLY used if no
.B "-x"
option is specified on the program invocation.
When used, this variable should contain a comma separated 
list of environment variable names (no intervening white space
between list names).  Only these named environment variables are sent over
to the remote execution environment but only if the environment 
variable exists on the client machine.
.TP
\f3\-e environment_file\f1
The
.B "-e"
option is used to have an environment file executed on
the remote machine before the user specified command
is executed.  For heterogeneous machine environments,
ideally, each different machine could have a file in the
user's home directory that could be executed
to provide the proper environment for the user requested
command.  Normally, a user's 
.B ".profile"
type file serves this function but is not always the
best choice when executing many remote commands.
Usually, a file is created with a list of environment variables
which are the essential set needed for proper remote
execution of commands.  This file should be able to be
executed by
.B "/bin/sh"
and should export any environment variables that are desired
to be in the environment of the user requested command to
be executed.  This file can be the user's 
.B ".profile" 
type file but that may have undesirable side effects.
The specified file (what ever it may be) is executed with
its standard input, output and error redirected to the
.B "/dev/null"
file.
The specified environment file specified will not have a controlling terminal
either.
If this option is used, the specified file is executed before
any further environment is sent over either by default
(the entire existing local environment) or those local
environment variables specified with the
.B "-x"
option.
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
This option is used to have the remote command executed in
the same directory as the current working directory on
the local machine.  If the remote machine cannot find or
change to this directory, it exits with an error return code.
The default directory where the user's specified command is
executed is the user's home directory on the remote machine.
.TP
\f3\-V\f1
This option will cause the program to print its version to 
the standard error output and then it will exit.
.TP
\f3\-?\f1
.\"_
This option will cause a brief help message to be printed
to standard error output and then the program will exit.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 12
.B RXPORT
This variable is used if no "-x" option was specified at
program invocation.  This variable should contain a comma separated
list of environment variable names.  These names and the associated
values of these variables from the client machine will be sent over to
the remote machine environment if the corresponding local
variable exists.
.TP
.B LOGNAME
This variable contains the local user login name.  It can be changed
by the user under certain circumstances to specify alternate
login names for certain operations.  Note that this variable
can never be used to circumvent security (assuming no bugs anywhere)
since a check is always performed to verify that the variable
contents can be authentically associated with the current read UID.
It is really only useful to play with this variable when a single
UID has two or more valid username names associated with it.
.PD
.\"_
.SH EXIT CODES
Returns \f40\f1 upon successful completion, \f41\f1 otherwise.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
The following command:
.LP
.RS
\f3example% rshe lizard cat lizard.file >> example.file\f1
.RE
.LP
appends the remote file 
\f3lizard.file\f1
from the machine called
``lizard''
to the file called
\f3example.file\f1
on the machine called
``example.''
.RE
.\"_
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/hosts
.TP
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
.TP
.B ${HOME}/.rhosts
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
.PD
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rsh (1),
.BR rex (1),
.BR rl (1),
.BR rx (1),
.BR rexec (1),
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR in.named (1M),
.BR in.rshd (1M),
.BR hosts (4),
.BR hosts.equiv (4),
.BR passwd(4)
.\"_
.SH NOTES
.LP
When a system is listed in \f3hosts.equiv\f1, its
security must be as good as local security.  One insecure 
system listed in \f3hosts.equiv\f1 can compromise the 
security of the entire system.
.LP
You cannot run an interactive command (such as
.BR vi (1)
);
use
.BR rlogin
if you wish to do so.
This is a major short coming of I/O development on the UNIX
operating system platform.  
Even with STREAMS, I/O has not progressed significantly
to even match some of the capabilities of other (now almost
obsolete) operating systems.  How will the UNIX operating system
stack up to MS-Windows, MS-Windows NT, or Apple's MacOS ?  we will
see in time.
.LP
Stop signals stop the local
.B rshe   
process only; this is arguably
wrong, but currently hard to fix for reasons too complicated to
explain here.
.LP
Sometimes the
\f3\-n\f1
option is needed for reasons that are less than obvious.
For example, the command:
.LP
.RS
\f3example% rshe somehost dd if=/dev/nrmt0 bs=20b | tar xvpBf \-\f1
.RE
.LP
will put your shell into a strange state.  Evidently, what happens is
that the
\f3tar\f1
terminates before the
\f3rshe\f1.
The
.B rshe   
then tries to write into the ``broken pipe'' and,
instead of terminating neatly,
proceeds to compete with your shell for its standard input.  Invoking
.B rshe   
with the
\f3\-n\f1
option avoids such incidents.
This bug occurs only when
.B rshe   
is at the beginning of a pipeline and
is not reading standard input.  Do not use the
\f3\-n\f1
if
.B rshe   
actually needs to read standard input.  For example,
.LP
.RS
\f3example% tar cf \- . | rshe sundial dd of=/dev/rmt0 obs=20b\f1
.RE
.LP
does not produce the bug.  If you were to use the
\f3\-n\f1
in a case like this,
.B rshe   
would incorrectly read from
\f3/dev/null\f1
instead of from the pipe.
.\"_
.SH CAVEATS
A significant difference from this program and the
more popular
.B RSH
program is that this program will not execute multiple
commands enclosed in quotes like the 
.B RSH
program will.
This program will only execute a single supplied program
along with its arguments (no funny business).
.PP
The 
.B "-n"
option should not have to exist.  It does exist because
of some fundamental flaws in the way in which I/O is
handled in both old (non-STREAMS) and new (STREAMS) versions
of UNIX.  These I/O limitations do not exist in operating
systems such as DEC's RSM-11M or DEC's VMS but, of course,
these operating systems suffer from other problems (possibly
quite numerous) also.  The
.B "-n"
option simple directs the
.B rshe
program to not read its standard input and to instead
return an end-of-file indication to the remote command's
standard input.  Normally, the
.B rshe 
program continuously, and naively, reads its standard
input because it is too stupid to know when the remote
command issues a read to its standard input.  This behavior
can be ultimately traced to a fundamental flaw in the I/O subsystem of
the UNIX operating system.  The UNIX operating system's
I/O STREAM head (STREAMS is assumed for this discussion) does
not provide any indication of how much data is requested
by the program above the STREAM head.  For this reason,
any and all STREAMS modules and ultimately programs residing
on the client side of a network connection have to assume
that the server side program continuously wants input data.
This could have been long ago fixed in UNIX (circa 1982 at least)
but no...ooo !  The powers that were thought that they knew how to make 
operating systems and did not understand the need for
a formalized "attention" type indication from programs issuing
reads on the other end of a communications pipe (network or
otherwise).
.PP
There are too many "remote execution" programs and most all
of then, like this one (RSHE), are poor excuses for the original
real thing ; namely, REXEC nad its children RL, RX, et cetera
from AT&T.  Sun Microsystem's ON program and its daemon RPC.REXD
have the potential to come close to the AT&T original but
it is not even as good as it could be.  Finally, be warned,
at the time of this writing, that Sun's ON remote execution facility
is extremely buggy, often leading to machine crashes of the client
side, server side or both !  It's no wonder that it is usually,
and shipped from Sun as so, turned OFF !!!
.\"_
