.\"_
.TH VMAIL 1 2002-01-28 PCS
.SH NAME
vmail \- read and manage mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
vmail [<mailbox>] [-V]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I vmail
is a screen-oriented version of \fIreadmail\fP (PCS).  
This program is part of the
Personal Communication Services (PCS) system.
It is used for
reading and managing collections of mail messages.
It can be used to read, classify, delete, reply to, and forward mail.
The user may create as many named mail files, called \fImailboxes\fP,
as desired.  When
.I vmail
is invoked, the user is normally in the \fBnew\fP or incoming mailbox.
Messages can be moved into other mailboxes and can be retrieved later
by changing into the appropriate mailbox.
Invoking 
.I vmail
with an argument will start it up in the
specified mailbox.
.P
.I vmail
divides the screen into two windows: a message \fBsummary\fP area,
and a message \fBviewing\fP area.  The first area displays one-line
summaries of mail messages in the current mailbox,
and the second screen area displays mail messages, help, and mailbox names.
Mailboxes can contain on or more mail messages.  There is no limit to 
the number of messages that can be stored in any given mailbox.
The current message is indicated by an arrow at the left most end 
of the summary window area.  The arrow will point to the summary line
of the currently selected message.
.P
The user types single character commands to change the current
message or mailbox, or to perform operations on the current message.
The commands are acted upon immediately, and do not have to be
followed by a carriage return.  Some commands require an
argument, such as a new mailbox name.  These command arguments are
terminated by a carriage return.  
.\"_
.SS Command Line Options
An optional mailbox name can be given as a positional argument to
\f(CWvmail\fP.  If no mailbox name is given, a default mailbox name 
(\f(CW${HOME}/mail/new\fP) is used if it exists.  If it does not exist,
the \fIvmail\fP will attempt to create it.
If the default incoming mailbox file cannot be created,
then the mailbox derived from processing the MBOX environment
variable is used instead.  If a mailbox name is given on the
command line and it starts with a slash character ('/'), then
it is taken as the name of a mailbox file instead.  If a mailbox
is given but does not start with a slash character, then it is
taken as the name of a mailbox within the default mail folder directory.
.sp
The \fBV\fP command line option cause \fIvmail\fP to print its current
version number and then finally exit.  Other command line options may
be processed for errors before existing.
.\"_ .sp
.\"_ The \fBf\fP option takes the next argument which follows as the name of
.\"_ a mailbox files to start up in.  If the mailbox file name is preceded
.\"_ with a plus sign ('+') then is is taken as the name of a mailbox
.\"_ file within the default mail folder (usually \f(CW${HOME}/mail\fP).  
.\"_ Note that this option will override any mailbox name which may also be
.\"_ given on the command line.
.\"_
.SS Commands
Commands are initiated by the user by typing single characters.
Case is significant.  Some commands operate immediately without
any further input and some commands will prompt for an argument
when needed.  Many of the commands can be preceded by an optional count.
Counts are entered by entering decimal digits followed in the desired
command.  Commands which accept preceding optional counts are
identified below.  A brief description of some of the available commands
follows.
.TP 5
.B <CR>
This command (a single carriage return character)
has two possible actions depending on whether it is used
alone or if it is preceded by a count.
Normally this command simply displays the next page of the current message
or the next page of help text.  If this command is preceded by a count,
then a different action is taken.  The mailer will move to the
message indicated by the count from the beginning of the mailbox.
A count of 1 refers to the first message.  Messages in mailboxes
are numbered according to the position of the message within the mailbox.
A count which is bigger than the number of messages in the current mailbox
is interpreted to refer to the last message in the mailbox.
.TP 5
.B +
When entered without a preceding count, this command (a plus sign
character) defaults to the
same action as the \fIcarriage return\fP command above.  If this
command is preceded by a count, then the mailer will jump ahead
to the \fIcount\fP numbered page forward in the current message.
If the user is on the last page of a message, then this command will
cause the first page of a message to be displayed again.
.TP 5
.B -
This command (a minus sign character) is used 
to go back to a previous page in the current
message.  If the command is preceded by a count, then the mailer
program will go back \fIcount\fP number of pages in the message.
If the user is at the first page of a message, then the mailer
will go in the latest page in the message that has already been 
\fBpreviously\fP
read.  If the user has not read all of the pages in the current
message and is currently reading the first page, then this command will 
cause the mailer to go to the highest numbered page in the message
that has already been read.
.TP 5
.B b
The
.I back
command displays the previous (or first) page of the current message.
If this command is preceded by a count, then the mailer will go
back \fIcount\fP messages in the current mailbox.  A large count value
will cause the mailer to go back to the first message in the mailbix.
.TP 5
.B n
The 
.I next
command makes the next message in the current mailbox to be the current 
message.  An optional count can precede this command and will
cause the mailer to go ahead \fIcount\fP number of messages forward
in the mailbox.
.TP 5
.B N
The
.I Next
command makes the tenth next message be the current message.
An optional count value will cause the mailer to go ahead
\fIcount\fP multiples of 10 messages at a time.
.TP 5
.B p
The 
.I previous
command makes the previous message be the current message.
An optional count can precede this command.
.TP 5
.B P
The 
.I Previous
command makes the tenth previous message in the current message.
An optional count can precede this command and will cause the
mailer to go back \fIcount\fP number of messages in the mailbox.
.TP 5
.B F
The
.I First
command makes the first message be the current message.
.TP 5
.B L
The
.I Last
command makes the last message be the current message.
.TP 5
.B c
The
.I change
command is used to change to a new mail file.
.TP 5
.B l
The
.I list
command is used to list the names of all existing mail files.
.TP 5
.B d
The
.I delete
command marks the current message for deletion.  It will
actually be deleted when the user changes to another mailbox or
when the user exit the mail reader program.  An option controls whether the
user is prompted for confirmation before messages are deleted.
.TP 5
.B u
The
.I undelete
command removes the deletion mark from a message.
.TP 5
.B m
The
.I move
command moves a message to another mail file.  It prompts the
user for the name of the file to move to.  If the file is a new
one, the user must confirm the command.  
If no mail file is given, the message is moved to the mailbox \fBold\fP.
If the message is
successfully moved, the message in the current mail file is
marked for deletion.  It can still be undeleted by the user if desired
before leaving the current mailbox and before leaving the mailer program.
.TP 5
.B r
The
.I reply
command is used to generate a reply to the current message.  A message
to the sender of the current message is generated, and \fIsmail\fP (PCS) is
invoked to send the mail.
.TP 5
.B R
The
.I Reply
command is used to generate a reply to the current message.  A message
to the sender of the current message, and to every one of its recipients
is generated, and \fIsmail\fP (PCS) is
invoked.  The command is refered to as a \fIconference\fP reply.
.TP 5
.B f
The
.I forward
command is used to forward the current message to someone else. 
The \fIsmail\fP program is invoked, and then the current message is appended
before the mail is actually sent.
.TP 5
.B e
The
.I editforward
is the same as the forward command except that the forwarded message can be
edited to add the forwarder's own comments.
.TP 5
.B s
The
.I send
command is used to invoke \fBsmail\fP to send a message.
.TP 5
.B a
The
.I append
command is used to append the current message to a file.
.TP 5
.B w
The
.I write
command is used to write the current message to a file.  The
message replaces the previous contents of the file, whereas in
the 
.I append
command the message is added after the previous contents.
.TP 5
.B >
This is the same as the \fIwrite\fP commands described above.
.TP 5
.B |
The
.I "| (pipe)"
command is used to pipe the current message to a command.  The
given command will be given to a shell, with the current message
piped in as the standard input.  A nice program to print
mail messages is either
.MW mailPR
or
prt-pcsmail
\&.
Each of these programs produces a different "nice" printout of the
current message.  See the 
.MW man
pages for these commands
for further information (or just try them out).
Other popular
programs for printing are \f(CBprt\fP, \f(CBlp\fP, or \f(CBlpr\fP, but these
will not produce a fancy formatted printout like the above programs.
.TP 5
.B ?
The
.I "? (help)"
command is used to request a summary of the commands.
The user may page through the help summary by typing successive
carriage returns.
.TP 5
.B h
The
.I help
command is used to request help on a specific command.  
It prompts for the command character, and displays a short help message.
.\"_
.\"_
.SS "Managing Mailboxes"
Messages in mailboxes are usually ordered in FIFO (first-in first-out) order.
However, the  \fBnew\fP mailbox may be ordered by giving a sequence of 
logical expressions (one per line) in the file \f(CW.priority\fP in 
directory \f(CW${HOME}/mail\fP.
Messages matching are then sorted in priority order followed by non-matching
messages in FIFO order.  
Alternatively, new messages may be sorted in
LIFO (last in first out; reverse chronological) order by specifying
the option "nofifo" (see below); this may not be combined with priority 
sorting.
The option "sort_all" causes mailboxes other than the new one to also 
be priority sorted.
.P
Logical expressions are composed of header:value pairs such as
\f(CWFROM:schatz\fP or \f(CWSUBJECT:mail\fP.   
The valid headers are those from a normal
sendmail message, namely:  \f(CWFROM\fP, \f(CWTO\fP, \f(CWSUBJECT\fP, 
\f(CWDATE\fP, \f(CWKEYWORDS\fP.
The pairs may be composed with the operators and (&) and or (|).
.\"_
.SS "Program Options"
Profile options may be set or updated by the PCS profiler,
because 
.I vmail
uses the same options as \fIreadmail\fP.
The options that are effective are:
.sp
.PD 0
.TP 15
scan_long
use long (80 columns) scanline rather than short (50 columns)
.TP
fifo
order messages in first-in first-out sequence
.TP
sort_all
priority sort messages in every mailbox
.TP
confirm
require confirmation before deleting messages at exit
.PD
.P
The defaults 
set by the PCS
.I profiler
are:  \f(CWscan_long\fP, \f(CWfifo\fP, \f(CWconfirm\fP.
.sp
.\"_
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.TP
\fBPCS\fP
This should be set to the root of the system PCS directory tree.
If it is left unset (not untypical) an internal default, which is
usually correct, is used instead.
.TP
\fBMAIL\fP
This environment variable is set to the user's spool area mailbox
where new mail arriving into the computer system is initially placed.
If this variable is not set, then a default is used which is normally
either \f(CW/usr/mail/userid\fP or \f(CW/var/spool/mail/userid\fP.
These are the default locations for new mail on AT&T System V based UNIX
and BSD based UNIX systems respectively.
.\"_ .TP
.\"_ \fBMBOX\fP
.\"_ This is used by other mailers as well and should be set to the
.\"_ name of a file to be used as the user's primary storage mailbox file.
.\"_ The user's new mail, using PCS as well as other mailers, is typically
.\"_ taken from the system mail spool area and stored in this file (mailbox).
.\"_ This variable is used by \fIvmail\fP when the default mailbox located in
.\"_ the file
.\"_ \f(CW${HOME}/mail/new\fP does not exist and cannot be created.
.TP
\fBfolder\fP
This environment variable, when set, contains a directory path name
of where the user's mailbox files are stored.  If the path begins with
a slash character then the path is used directly.  If the path
does not begin with a slash character then he user's HOME directory
is prepended to the given path.  If this variable is not set (typical),
then it defaults to \f(CWmail\fP, which would be the folder directory
in the user's HOME directory tree.
.\"_
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f(CW${PCS}/bin/vmail\fP
executable program
.TP
\f(CW${PCS}/lib/vmail/rhelp\fP
the help messages
.TP
\f(CW${HOME}/mail\fP
default directory containing mailbox files
.TP
\f(CW${HOME}/mail/.priority\fP
optional new box presorting
.TP
\f(CW/usr/mail/${USERNAME}\fP
a typical system mail spool 
area (on UNIX System V) where incoming mail is delivered
.TP
\f(CW/var/spool/mail/${USERNAME}\fP
a typical system mail spool 
area (on a BSD UNIX variant like SunOS 4.x) where incoming mail is delivered
.PD
.\"_
.SH "SEE ALSO"
profiler(PCS), readmail(PCS), smail(PCS), prt-pcsmail(PCS), pcsv(PCS)
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
