.\"_
.TH UDD 1 "v 0" PCS
.SH NAME
udd /- directory update daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.B udd
[newsgroup(s) ...] [-subject | -newsgroups | -count]
.br
	[-a | -o] [-e] [-r] [-mailbox] [-u usernewsrc]
.br
	[-C] [-interactive] [-V?] [-L termlines] 
.br
.B bbr
[newsgroup(s) ...] [-a] [-e]
.br
.B bbpost
[newsgroup] [-edit] [-s subject] [-a attachment]
.br
.B rbbpost 
newsgroup
.br
.B datepost 
newsgroup
.\"_
.nr Hy 0
.ad b
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These programs provide enhancements
over the standard UNIX \fInews\fP mechanism
that include simplified preparation,
the categorization of articles by interest group,
and the concurrent posting of bulletins on multiple machines.
This system also provides advantages over the old UNIX \fImsgs\fP
system.
These programs are part of a software tool package called \fIPersonal
Communication Services\fP or
.BI
PCS
in abbreviated form.  The PCS software tools are a set of
cooperating and integrated programs that perform personal
communication and management type functions for users.  Some services
available with the PCS package include: mail, bulletin board, message
display, calendar, and event reminder type services.
Only the bulletin board related programs are primarily discussed
further here.
.\"_
.PP
Basically, the bulletin board facility consists of a newsgroup
spool area (someplace in the UNIX file systems)
which contains \fIarticles\fP which have been posted to
various \fInewsgroups\fP within the news spool area.
Articles are similar to email messages and are placed on
various newsgroups or "bulletin boards".
A newsgroup is a subarea within the entire news spool area
that contains articles which are usually related by similar subject matter.
The notion of what articles belong to which newsgroup is
purely a user one and the system doesn't try to enforce
any policy of where user articles should be posted.
Hierarchical newsgroups are
supported.  When newsgroups are nested within each other, the name
of the newsgroup is a composite type of name similar to a UNIX
path name but with periods used to separate parent newsgroup names 
from the subnewsgroups within them.
Newsgroups can be nested to any level.
Some example newsgroup names might look like:
.EX
general
general.newuser
tools
tools.i286
tools.mc68
tools.latk
tools.ogs
news.ho
news.lz
news.dr
msgs.ho
msgs.lz
misc
.EE
.\"_
Associated with each newsgroup and user is the concept of currency.
Currency refers to the last time a user has read the articles on any
particular newsgroup.
All articles which have been created or modified since the last
time the newsgroup was read are considered current.
.PP
A user can individually subscribe to the newsgroups of their choice.
The default list of newsgroups to be selected for reading
is specified by the environment variable \f(CWBBBDS\fP.
This can be set by either manual editing of the user's profile
related information (usually in the user's file \f(CW.pcsprofile\fP)
or by means of one or more utility type programs designed to aid in
bulletin board newsgroup selection and subscription.
Newsgroups can also be subscribed to by manual
editing of the user's newsgroup list file
(usually \f(CW.bbnewsrc\fP in the user's HOME directory).  
Within the user newsgroup
list file, those newsgroups followed by an exclamation character
are consider unsubscribed while those followed by a colon character
are considered subscribed.  A union of the list of newsgroups
in the environment variable \f(CWBBBDS\fP and the subscription information
from the user's newsgroup list file is used as the default set of
newsgroups to scan for new articles.  Other newsgroups can be scanned
for articles when a newsgroup is given on the command line at invocation
of the \fIbb\fP program.
.\"_
.SS "The \fIbb\fP Program"
.PP
When invoked without arguments, the
.I
bb
program prints all unread articles
on the set of newsgroups selected for reading
and updates the user's currency time with respect to these newsgroups.
When invoked with a newsgroup name,
the program prints the unread articles and updates the
currency time on that newsgroup.
.PP
The default behavior of the program (in the absence of any of the
options \f(CW-subject\fP, \f(CW-newsgroups\fP, \f(CW-count\fP)
is to read unread articles from the newsgroups that are selected
for reading by the user.  By default, selected newsgroups are
those that the user is subscribed to.  If the user has listed
one or more newsgroups on the command line, then these are used
instead of the user's subscribed newsgroups.
The program displays each unread article from the selected
newsgroups and then
pauses to prompt the user for one of the following commands:
.RS 12
.TP 10
.I Command
.I Action
.TP
.B next
This command displays the next unread article.  
This is default action and can also
be entered with a plain carriage return.
.TP
.B previous
This command can be used to possibly display the previous 
(already read) article in the current newsgroup.  
Currently, there are limitations to this command.  Since newsgroups
can actually be realized by multiple directories in the UNIX file
systems, not all previous articles are currently available for
retrieval due to limitations in the software.  Only previous articles
that are stored in the same UNIX directory can be retrieved.
Also, previous articles that the user read in previous bulletin
board reading sessions are currently not available either.
One or both of these restrictions may be removed in the future.
.TP
.B review
Display this article again.
.TP
.B follow
This command is used to follow-up on the current article by posting
a new article to the same newsgroup.  The \fIbbpost\fP program
is invoked so that the user can enter a follow-up article.
.TP
.B reply
invoke 
.I pcsmail
(or \fIsendmail\fP)
with the recipient and subject defaulted.  This is analogous to the
reply in 
.I readmail
and facilitates responses to the author of an article.
.TP
.B save
Save the previously read article in the user's "new" mailbox.
.TP
.B print
Print out the previously read article to the user's default printer
as specified with the \f(CWPRINTER\fP environment variable.
The article is printed in a specially prepared format for news articles.  
Essentially, about two pages worth of
article are printed per paper page in landscape orientation.  
The underlying
print mechanism that is invoked is the PCS print program
\fIprt-pcsmail\fP.  
This command can take additional options.
Any options specified are passed down to the \fIprt-pcsmail\fP program.
This is most commonly used to change the printer destination or
the number of copies with a command like:
.EX
print -d di2 -c 2 -s 2
.EE
.\"_
.TP
.B Next
This command is used to skip reading the rest of
articles in the newsgroups that is currently being read and start displaying
unread articles from the newsgroup that has any unread articles (if there
is one).  Articles that are skipped are marked as being read.
.br
\fBThis command is not implemented yet\fP.
.TP
.B Previous
This command is used to go back to a previous newsgroup
and start reading the last article in the newsgroups.
.br
\fBThis command is not implemented yet and may not be for quite a while\fP.
.TP
.B Skip
This command is used to skip reading the rest of
articles in the newsgroups that is currently being read and start displaying
unread articles from the newsgroup that has any unread articles (if there
is one).  Articles that are skipped are not marked as being read.
.TP
.B Catchup
This command is used to skip reading the rest of
articles in the newsgroups that is currently being read and start displaying
unread articles from the newsgroup that has any unread articles (if there
is one).  Articles that are skipped are marked as being read.
.br
\fBThis command is not implemented yet\fP.
.TP
.B quit
Terminate bulletin board reading (and update currency).
.TP
.B ?
This prints out some brief help consisting of some of the commands and
their function.
.TP
.B Save
This is a sneaky (previously undocumented) command which appears
to suspend the current bulletin board reading session but the
exact consequences of this is not known by the author and the user is
advised to play with this at her own risk.
.TP
.B | \fI(pipe character)\fP
This is a previously undocumented command which appears to pipe the
current article out to a program specified after the pipe character.
Users are advised to use only at their own risk.
.TP
.B > \fI(redirect output character)\fP
This is a previously undocumented command which appears to write the
current article out to a file name which follows after the output redirect
character.
Users are advised to use only at their own risk.
.RE
.PP
The
.I bb
program may also be invoked with the following options
preceded by a "-" character (or "+" in the case of the \f(CWold\fP
option -- depreciated).
These options can usually be
specified in as few letters as
necessary to distinguish them uniquely.
Only one option of
\f(CW-subject\fP, \f(CW-newsgroups\fP, \f(CW+count\fP,
(or \f(CW+old\fP if still supported by the system), 
may be specified at one time.  
In the absense of one of these
preceding options, the program \fBread\fPs unread articles on
the newsgroups selected.  These are basically, the four functions
(not including that provided by \f(CW+old\fP) that the program performs.
Unless the "\f(CW-e\fP" option 
is specified, only the newsgroups
to which the user has subscribed will be accessed.
The execution mode of the program can be changed with 
the following command line options:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B "-subject"
Print the subjects of articles.
.TP
.B "-newsgroups"
List the names of the newsgroups.  An old option (\fB-boards\fP) 
performs the same function as this option.
.TP
.B "-count"
This option causes the number of articles on each newsgroup
to be counted and the counts outputted.
.TP
.B "+old"
Print the subjects of all articles regardless of currency.  This
option is depreciated in favor of:
.EX
bb -subject -a
.EE
which provides the same function.
.RE
.sp
The following options display information about the
program:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B "-V"
Print out the version of the program and then exit.
.TP
.B "-?"
This option causes the program to print a brief description of
command line options and then the program exists.
.TP
.B "-D"
This option causes internal program debugging information to
be written to standard error as the program executes.
.RE
.sp
The behavior of the \fIbb\fP program can be modified with the following
options:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B "-L termlines"
This option sets the number of terminal lines that will
be used by the program to \fItermlines\fP.  This will
override the \f(CWLINES\fP environment variable if it is
specified.
.TP
\fB-o\fP
This option modifies the program behavior to act only on
"old" articles rather than the default behavior which is to 
act only on "new" articles.  The definitions of "old" and "new"
are relative with respect to the user's newgroup currency time.
If the \f(CW-a\fP option is also supplied, it takes precedence over
this option.
.TP
\fB-a\fP
Print all articles for whatever newsgroups are selected,
regardless of currency, both "old" and "new".
This option takes precedence over the \f(CW-o\fP option if it is also
present.
.TP
\fB-r\fP
This option is used to reverse the order in which articles
are visited.  Normally when this option is omitted, articles
are visited oldest first and latest last.  If this option is
given, then articles are visited latest first and oldest last.
.TP
\fB-e\fP
Modify the behavior of the \fIbb\fP program to make reference to every 
newsgroup that exists in
the bulletin board spool directory area (BBDIR).  
When combined with other options,
this permits newsgroups that are not subscribed to by the user to be accessed.
.TP
.B "-interactive"
This option selects whether \f(CWbb\fP behaves interactively or not.
The most common use of this is to catch up on unread articles
non-interactively.
Some cleaver users
may use the non-interactive mode of the program to simply get the articles
written out for postprocessing of some sort.  The "mailbox" option is
usually better for this sort of use but non-interactive mode is retained
for backward compatibility for some old time users.
This option is only used during "read" mode operation.
.TP
.B "-mailbox"
This option is used by the \fIbbr\fP program (described later)
to have the news articles 
(selected by currency time) 
formatted for use by a mail reading program like \fBvmail\fP
or \fBreadmail\fP.  This option can also be used by those users who
want to write various article filtering programs or the like for
article sorting or alternate presentations.  
This option only has meaning while \fBread\fPing articles.
This option is only used during "read" mode operation.
.TP
.B "-C"
This option is only useful when the program is in the "read" mode
of operation.
This option causes the command output (prompts, et cetera) to 
be mixed with the message output.  This is sometimes useful
for when both types of output is filtered through some sort
of other program while still running the \fIbb\fP program interactively.
Normally, if standard output is not a terminal, command like output
is routed to standard error rather than standard output.  This
behavior is kept for backward compatibility reasons.
.RE
.\"_
.SS "The \fIbbr\fP Program"
.PP
The
.I "bbr"
program collects all the "current" articles from the user's selected
newsgroups and
puts them into the user's mailbox \fIbbtemp\fP (user's file 
\f(CW${HOME}/mail/bbtemp\fP) suitable for viewing with a
mail reader program like
.I
rdmail
or
.I 
vmail
\&.
These articles are no longer considered
"current" like when \f(CWbb -subject\fP
is run.
.\"_
.SS "The \fIbbpost\fP Program"
.PP
The
.I bbpost
program is used for preparing and posting
articles to newsgroups.
The user is prompted
for the newsgroups 
(sometimes referred to as a \fIboard\fP)
to post to 
(prompt is \f(CWNEWSGROUP\fP or \f(CWNEWSGROUPS\fP),
the subject of the article (prompt is 
\f(CWSUBJECT\fP),
and the text of the article.
The
.I bbpost
program adds
\fIFROM\fP
and 
\fIDATE\fP
information to the article before submission into the bulletin
board system.
.PP
After the article is entered by the user,
.I bbpost
prompts for one of the following commands:
.RS 12
.TP 10
.I Command
.I Action
.TP
.B post
Post the article to the specified newsgroup.
.TP
.B review
Print out the article for review by the user.
.TP
.B edit
Edit the article (the NEWSGROUPS and SUBJECT fields may also
be edited).
.TP
.B quit
Terminate session without posting the article.
.RE
.PP
The
.I bbpost
program then posts the article to the bulletin board system.
Note that posted articles are usually transported throughout the bulletin
board system which may contain many machines with several different
newsgroup spool areas.  
Up to an hour or more of time may be needed
for an article to appear in other machine spool areas,
depending on how articles are transported.
.PP
If the \f(CWedit\fP option is used, \fIbbpost\fP will enter the editor for
the typing of the message.
The "\f(CW-s \fP\fIsubject\fP" command line option will bypass asking
the user for a subject and will use the supplied subject (specified by
\fIsubject\fP) instead.  If \fIsubject\fP has spaces or other shell
offending characters in it, it should be quoted appropriately so that
the shell will leave it alone.
The "\f(CW-a \fP\fIattachment\fP" command line option will append a file
specified as \fIattachment\fP to the composed article.  The program will
still ask the user to enter some text and after the user types
the period character to end the text, the program appends the
specified file.  If the user now "edit"s or "review"s the article,
the attachment will be seen and can be further edited it desired.
.\"_
.SS "The \fIrbbpost\fP Program"
.PP
The
.I rbbpost
program is similar to the \fIbbpost\fP program in that it is used to
post an article into the bulletin board system.  This command differs
significantly from the \fIbbpost\fP program in that it is completely
non-interactive.  This command reads an article file on its standard
input only and posts it to the newsgroup specified as the program's
invocation argument.  The input file is assumed to be
in an article format already.  An article formatted file is similar
to a file formatted as a mail message and in fact this is the most
common use for this command ; namely, to post mail message files
from a user's mail reading program.  Actually, any input file that
minimally begins with a blank line is acceptable and the \fIrbbpost\fP
program will add some additional article headers as appropriate
if necessary.
.PP
A typical example of using this program is to post an article 
from a user's mail reading program such as PCS \fIvmail\fP or
PCS \fIreadmail\fP.  In these mail readers, the user would
"pipe" the current message to the \fIrbbpost\fP program with
a command sequence similar to:
.EX
| rbbpost \fInewsgroup\fP
.EE
where \fInewsgroup\fP is the name of a valid newsgroup for the
system such as:
.EX
misc
general
.EE
and so forth.
.\"_
.SS "The \fIdatepost\fP Program"
.PP
The
.I datepost
program is similar to the \fIrbbpost\fP program.  The only difference
between this program and the \fIrbbpost\fP program is that the
posted article isn stored in the newsgroup spool area
in a file name that has a date type format.
This feature is useful for posting to newsgroups that are linked
to message storage areas that may be scanned by looking at file names.
Since articles are implemented as files in the system, storing the
articles with a file name that reflects the date of the posting
is sometimes useful.
.PP
This program is otherwise used exactly as the \fIrbbpost\fP
program.
Postings usually originate from a user's mail reading 
program such as PCS \fIvmail\fP or
PCS \fIreadmail\fP.  In these mail readers, the user would
"pipe" the current message to the \fIdatepost\fP program with
a command sequence similar to:
.EX
| datepost \fInewsgroup\fP
.EE
where \fInewsgroup\fP is the name of a valid newsgroup for the
system such as:
.EX
events
misc
general
.EE
and so forth.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
Most people put the following command line in their login startup
profiles to list out the articles posted in the newsgroups for
which the user is subscribed:
.EX
bb -subject
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To just read unread articles from the user's subscribed newsgroups,
execute:
.EX
bb
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To catch up on unread articles, without seeing them, execute:
.EX
bb -int > /dev/null
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To read unread articles in the order from the latest one 
posted to the earliest one
posted:
.EX
bb -r
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the names of all of the user's subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -newsgroups
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the names of all of the newsgroups in the system:
.EX
bb -newsgroups -e
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To search for a newsgroup (\f(CWSWAPEX_Classes\fP in this example)
when you only remember a few characters from
the name of the newsgroup, execute:
.EX
bb -newsgroups -e | fgrep APEX
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the subject header values of unread articles on the user's 
subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -subject
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the subject header values of all (old and new) articles on the user's 
subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -subject -a
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the subject header values of all articles on all
newsgroups in the system:
.EX
bb -subject -a -e
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the count of unread articles on the user's 
subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -count
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the count of all old articles still in a newsgroup (the
newsgroup \fIgeneral\fP in this case):
.EX
bb -count -o general
.EE
.\"_
.SH "POPULAR NEWSGROUPS"
.PP
Some of the more popular newsgroups listed below.
Some of these newsgrops are read only to normal users.
Those newsgroups that are read-only or that may have other restricted
are identified as such below.  Some newsgroups are also
accessible (can be posted to) from outside of GBCS via email.
Your PCS bulletin board administrator 
(listed at the end of this manual page)
will have information
on which newsgroups can be posted to via email.
.PP
The descriptions of the more popular newsgroups are:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B general
This newsgroup is meant to exchange articles on general items
related to work.  Do not use this newsgroup for non-work related
topics.
.TP
.B "general.newuser"
This newsgroup carries information useful to new members
of the GBCS R&D or other basic information useful for using the R&D
computing environment for the fist time.
.TP
.B misc
Use this newsgroup for all non-work related items.
.TP
.B events
This newsgroup is used for work related events coming up
like organizational wide meetings or other corporate AT&T 
activities.
.TP
.B "events.courses"
This newsgroup is used to provide information on general
courses available that that not normally carried on any other newsgroup.
.TP
.B "workplace"
This newsgroup is used for the exchange of workplace, or quality of
workplace, related issues.
.TP
.B tools
This newsgroup is used for the exchange of tool realted
information.  Watch this newsgroup for new R&D-wide computer tools
and tool updates including PCS related tools.
.TP
.B luncheons
This is used for the posting of all luncheon announcements.
.TP
.B jobposts
This newsgroup is readonly (to normal users) and is used to provide
information on job openings within GBCS (usually the R&D community).
.TP
.B ATT_today
This newsgroup (also readonly) carries the \fIAT&T Today\fP electronic
newsletter.
.TP
.B test
This newsgroup can be used by new users to test out posting an article
to the system.
.TP
.B news
This newsgroup and related subnewsgroups are usually used
by the computer center to post computing environment related
information (usually of a transient nature).  This newsgroup
is special in that it is really cross posted from the UNIX News
faciality.  Posts may or may not be possible to this newsgroup
depending on how the computing administors set it up.
Sometimes, posts can be made to this
newsgroup but will not be readable using the UNIX \fInews\fP
prgram.
Ask your PCS bulletin board administrator (listed at the end of this
manual page) for information about how posting (if any) can be
made to this newsgroup.
.TP
.B msgs
This newsgroup, or its subnewsgroups, are used to hold all articles
that were mailed into the system through the UNIX MSGS facility.
Although articles can be posted to this newsgroup like any other
using a PCS program like \fIbbpost\fP,
these posted articles will normally \fBnot\fP be available
to the UNIX \fBMSGS\fP system reader program \fImsgs\fP.
Generally, it is advised that the \fImsgs\fP program be used
for posting to this newsgroup for articles to be available to both
systems simulatneously (as generally intended).
.RE
.sp
Many projects usually have project specific newsgroups for
various purposes.  Contact your project's process or methodology people
for information on newsgroups specific to your project.
A full list of all of the newsgroups on the system at any time can
be made by executing:
.EX
bb -newsgroups -a
.EE
Requests for the creation of new newsgroups should be made to the
PCS bulletin board administrator.
.\"_
.SH "ADMINISTRATION"
.PP
.SS "Newsgroup Spool Area"
.PP
Each newsgroup is actually one or more directories in a 
news spool area someplace
in the UNIX file systems.  The appearance of a directory any place
in the hierarchy of the spool area is automatically considered to
be a newsgroup (possibly a new one) and is scanned for new articles.
Symbolic links are followed when traversing the newsgroup spool area.
Symbolic links allow for several possibilities including expanding the
apparent newsgroup spool area to a size larger than a physical UNIX file
system.  Other possibilities can include linking more than one newsgroup
together to provide a physical newsgroup by two or more apparent names.
The hierarchy of newsgroups follows the UNIX directory hierarchy of
the newsgroup spool area.  Specifically, subdirectories are taken
to be subnewsgroups.  Both parent newsgroups and subnewsgroups can
contain articles.  Newsgroup nesting can occur to any level desired.
Currently, hierarchical newsgroups are
also realized when a UNIX directory name has one or more period 
characters in it.
The period in these sorts of directory names separates the parent newsgroup
name (which can never contain any articles since there is no
actual physical directory associated with it) from the subnewsgroup
name.  The directory itself is considered to the that which holds the
article files for the subnewsgroup.  Full newsgroup names made up
by both of the above mechanisms can exist simultaneously in the 
spool area and they are taken to reference the same apparent newsgroup
to the user.  All articles in any newsgroups found with the same
apparent name are scanned and taken to be in that single apparent
newsgroup.  This mechanism, along with symbolic links, can make
for some involved newsgroup structures which may or may not serve
particular administrators.
Finally, there is no limit to the number of newsgroups that can exist.
.\"_
.SS "Articles"
.PP
Each article is actually realized as an individual file in a newsgroup
directory.  The UNIX modification times of the article files are
taken to be the posted date of the articles.   Although the UNIX
modification
time of an article file is used to determine if that article
has been read by a user, the UNIX modification time of the newsgroup
directory that the article file is located in is also important.
When scanning for new articles, no newsgroup directories are entered
that have a modification time older than the currency time stored
for that newsgroup in the user's newsgroup list file.  Old articles
can only be made to be freshly current by also updating the modification
time of the newsgroup directory that the article is in.  This is
rather automatic for new articles placed into a directory since the
modification time of the directory is updated automatically
when new directory entries are made.
.PP
Articles should be formatted as RFC 822 like mail messages (UNIX
mail messages) in order to be properly processed by the PCS
article reading programs.  The PCS requirement for properly
formatted mail messages is a rather lenient one in that any file
with at least a leading blank line (a null header section followed
by a mail message body) is allowed.
Finally, there is currently a limit of 1000 articles allowed per
newsgroup.  This is a compile time variable which would require
a recompile of the program \fIbb\fP in order for this to be changed.
.\"_
.SS "Expiring Articles"
.PP
The easiest way for an administrator to expire articles is to
simply have their corresponding files removed from the newsgroup spool
area.  This can be accomplished with various UNIX utilities for
selecting files based on modification times.  Administrators can
also search for files ignoring symbolic links or UNIX mount
points.  These sorts of techniques can be used to not expire
articles that are in symbolically linked directories or in other
file systems.  
A simple example of expiring articles could be a \fIcron\fP
program which executes:
.EX
find $BBDIR -type f -mtime +22 -exec rm -f {} \;
.EE
Other strategies are possible and are left to the
industrious system administrators out there.
.\"_
.SS Other
.PP
Secretly, the program \fIbbr\fP simply calls the \fIbb\fP program with the
\f(CWmailbox\fP option to do most of its work.  Under some circumstances,
the PCS mail reader
program \fIvmail\fP also calls the \fIbb\fP program with the \f(CWmailbox\fP
option when a user of \fIvmail\fP uses it to "change" into their \fIbbtemp\fP
mailbox.  In this later case, the \fIbb\fP program ensures that the user's
\fIbbtemp\fP mailbox is "up-to-date" so that the \fIvmail\fP program
shows the current state of the updated mailbox.
.PP
The \fIrbbpost\fP program is suitably capable of being
executed by the UUCP system as a result of a remotely executed
\fIuux\fP command.  This provides one means of posting
articles to a system from outside of the system.
A remote user would execute something like:
.EX
uux -p mtgbcs!rbbpost misc < mail_msg_formatted_file
.EE
to get the message in the \fImail_msg_formatted_file\fP posted to
newsgroup \fImisc\fP within the PCS bulletin board system 
on machine \fImtgbcs\fP.  Of course, this capability requires the
UUCP system administrator to setup the \fIrbbpost\fP program
in the UUCP system \fIPermissions\fP file.
.PP
If the administrator has the MSGS system spool area directory
coincide with a PCS bulletin board newsgroup (reference the
discussion in the next section), then users can also
effectively post messages to the coicident newsgroup by emailing
to the local email alias \fImsgs\fP.  This requires that the \fImsgs\fP
email alias has been setup on the local mail system.  Users can still
post messages using something like:
.EX
msgs -s < mail_msg_formatted_file
.EE
similarly to the previous example with the \fIrbbpost\fP program.
The \fImsgs\fP program can also be executed by the UUCP system
due to a remote execution of \fIuux\fP if the command is properly
setup by the UUCP administrator in the UUCP system \fIPermissions\fP
file.
.\"_
.SH "COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER NEWS SYSTEMS"
.PP
The protocol used for the storage of articles in the PCS bulletin board
system is
similar to both the standard \fINetnews\fP system and the old \fImsgs\fP
facility for UNIX systems.  Since articles are stored in the PCS
bulletin board system as mail messages (of a sort), 
a high degree of compatibility
is achieved with both standard RFC 822 mail systems (including UNIX mail)
and the old UNIX \fPmsgs\fP system (which was popular on older BSD
systems).  
.\"_
.SS "UNIX MSGS System"
.PP
Compatibility is almost automatic with the UNIX \fImsgs\fP
system.  With the exception of a file usually named \fIbounds\fP
in the \fImsgs\fP spool area, all message articles
can be cross posted to the PCS news spool area.  One or more newsgroups
by the name \fBmsgs\fP or \fBmsgs.\fP\fIlocation\fP can be created
under the PCS news spool area to hold the message files which are
created under the \fImsgs\fP (proper) spool area.  If the spool
areas (the \fImsgs\fP system spool directory and a PCS newsgroup directory) 
are in fact one and the same, then
the \fImsgs\fP \fIbounds\fP file will almost always be found to
be unread (or current) by the PCS system.  This can be overcome by selectively
cross posting the other files in the \fImsgs\fP area to the
designated newsgroups under the PCS spool area.  An enhanced version of
the older UNIX \fImsgs\fP facility is provided with the PCS package
and can be installed to solve this problem with the \fImsgs\fP \fIbounds\fP
file.  The PCS version uses a file named \f(CW.msgs_bounds\fP
as its bounds control file instead 
and also, by default, locates the \fImsgs\fP spool area
directory at \f(CW${PCS}/spool/msgs\fP or something similar.  
This default spool
directory can be a symbolic link to a regular PCS newsgroup directory
which is normally desired.  Making the \fImsgs\fP \fIbounds\fP type
file start with a dot (period character) makes the file invisible
to the PCS newsgroups reading programs.
.\"_
.SS "UNIX News System"
.PP
Files (or news items) placed under the UNIX news spool area (usually
\f(CW/var/news\fP) are not automatically compatible with the PCS
news system since the UNIX \fInews\fP system's articles are not,
necessarily, in mail message file format.  If all articles posted to the UNIX
\fInews\fP system are minimally formatted as mail messages, then
complete cross posting is supported as well as simply making the
two corresponding news spool areas one and the same.  A minimally
conforming mail message file (for purposes of the PCS news system)
consists of a file with a blank line as the first line.  This leading
blank line is interpreted as the end of the header section of the
mail message and therefor meets the minimal requirements for
a mail message formatted file.  If UNIX \fInews\fP files are not
known to conform to mail messages, then allowing the PCS system
to read them will result in totally unpredictable behavior.
.\"_
.SS "Netnews"
.PP
Full compatibility with the standard Netnews system should be automatic.
Care should be taken to ensure that PCS posted articles conform to
the requirements for Netnews articles.  Restrictions on
the article's FROM header is required for Netnews posting
that is not present in the PCS system.  This is the only known
potential problem.
.\"_
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
The following environment variables
tailor the bulletin board services
to the user's personal preferences.
These variables used to be set and updated by the
PCS profiler program but should now be changed manually by the user
editing her \f(CW.pcsprofile\fP file in her HOME directory.
.TP 12
.B ED
The default program to use for the editor.
.TP
.B EDITOR
This environment variable is used to specify an editor program when
\fIED\fP is not set.
.TP
.B LINES
This environment variable sets the number of terminal lines to be used by the
program.  If the number of terminal lines is given on the command line,
then that value is used instead of this environment variable.
.TP
.B BBNEWSRC
This environment variable, if specified, gives the name of the user's newsgroup
list file.  If this variable is not specified, then the default file
\f(CW${HOME}/.bbnewsrc\fP is used.  The user's newsgroup list file
can also be specified on the command line with 
the \f(CW-u\fP \fIuser_news_file\fP option.
.TP
.B BBOPTS
This environment variable contains user preference options for
use in one or more of the bulletin board system commands.
Currently only the 
"\f(CW-edit\fP" option for the program \fIbbpost\fP is supported.
.TP
.B BBBDS
This environment variable contains a
list of the newsgroups subscribed to, separated by a colon (':') character.
As mentioned previously, the list of newsgroups that the \fIbb\fP
program uses is a union of the list of newsgroups in this environment
variable along with the list of newsgroups in the user's newsgroup
list file (usually \f(CW${HOME}/.bbnewsrc\fP) which are followed
by colon characters rather than exclamation point characters.
.TP
.B PRINTER
This variable should contain the printer destination for the user's default
printer.  This environment variable is used by the \fIprt-pcsmail\fP
program.  If this variable is not set, then some sort of default
is used but this is almost guaranteed to not be what the user wants.
.TP
.B BBDIR
This environment variable is used primarily for system testing
or for a user to have some sort of private newsgroup spool
area.  Otherwise, this variable should be unset or left alone.
When used, this variable should hold the directory path to the
top of the 
newsgroup spool area
(usually determined by the system administrator).  
A typical location for this is \f(CW${PCS}/spool/boards\fP.
The path to the newsgroup spool area can also be set with the
command line option \f(CW-N\fP \fInews_spool_dir\fP.
.TP
.B PCS
This environment variable is used to point to the PCS package directory.
This is usually at \f(CW/usr/add-on/pcs\fP but may not be on some
systems.  Not all programs in the PCS tool set may be safely 
relocated by changing this environment variable.  For proper user
operation, it is recommended that this environment variable always
point to the location of the properly installed system-wide PCS
package distribution directory.
.\"_
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 30
${HOME}/.pcsprofile
default user's profile type file containing PCS related environment variables
.TP
${HOME}/.bbnewsrc
this is the user's default newsgroup list file when one is not specified on
the command line or in the environment variable \f(CWBBNEWSRC\fP
.TP
${HOME}/.user_bds
this is the user's default newsgroup list file when it is not specifed
on the command line, in the environment variable \f(CWBBNEWSRC\fP,
and when the user does \fBnot\fP already have a file named \fI.bbnewsrc\fP
in her home directory
.TP
${HOME}/mail/bbtemp
user's default mailbox to receive articles scanned by the \fIbbr\fP
program
.TP
${HOME}/mail/new
user's default mailbox to receive articles "saved" by the user while
executing the \fIbb\fP
program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/bb
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/bbr
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/bbpost
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/rbbpost
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/datepost
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/pcsjobfile
utility program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/pcscl
utility program
.TP
${PCS}/src/bb
directory of source files
.TP
${PCS}/spool/boards
default newsgroup spool area directory
.PD
.\"_
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pcsmail(1), vmail(1), prt-pcsmail(1), msgs(1), news(1)
.\"_
.SH "PCS BULLETIN BOARD ADMINISTRATOR"
.PP
Mark Leeper
.\"_
.SH "PROGRAM AUTHOR"
.PP
Dave Morano
.\"_
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.PP
Many people have worked on the Personal Communication Services (PCS)
tools and at least a couple probably worked on the bulletin board
system.  Substantial bug fixes and improvements to the system have been
made by Dave Morano.  Special thanks are due to John Palframan
for believing in the PCS system of tools and utilities to keep
some of them alive and well in our computing environment.
Thanks are also due to Mark Leeper who is the official administrator
for routine maintenance of the bulletin board system and 
the news spool area.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
