'\" t
.TH PCSORG 1 0 PCS
.SH NAME
pcsorg \- get or set the PCS organization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR pcsorg
.OP -u " user" ] [
.OP -s " organization-name" ] [
.OP -R " program-root" ] [
.OP -D\fR[=<\fIn\fP>]\fP "" ] [
.OP -V "" ] [
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.SS Introduction
.PP
The \fIpcsorg\fP program
is used by the Personal Communication Services (PCS) user to get or
to set his personal organizaiton name.
By default the organization name of a user is set by the
system administrtor, but that organization name can be changed by
the use of this program.
By default (without any program options specified)
the organization name of the user is printed to standard-output.
.\"_
.SS Options
The following options can be used to change the mode of operation.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB-u\fP  \fIusername\fP
Operate on an alternative user besides the default calling user.
Proper privileges are required for setting the origanization of
another user.
.TP 15
\fB-s\fP  \fIorganization\fP
This option allows for setting of the organization name for the user.
The organization name should be quoted if it contains either whitespace
or other characters that would be interpreted by a SHELL.
.TP 15
\fB-R\fP  \fIprogram-root\fP
This option allows for setting the program-root of the program.
This is largely used for special debugging purposes.
.TP 15
\fB-V\fP
This option makes the program print the version of the program
to standard-error and then causes the program to exit (no other
functions are performed).
.RE
.\"_
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables may change the default behavior of the
program.
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B PCSORG_PROGRAMROOT
This environment variable is taken to contain
the program root over any other such environment variable.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.\"_
.TP 15
.B PCS
This environment variable is normally taken to contain
the program root.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.\"_
.TP 15
.B PROGRAMROOT
This environment variable is taken to contain
the program root if not other suitable environment variable
this this purpose are in the environment.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.RE
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
simply get the current PCS organization name:
.EX
 \f(CWpcsorg\fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
get the PCS organization name for another user:
.EX
 \f(CWpcsorg -u johny\fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
set an organization name:
.EX
 \f(CWpcsorg -s "Acne Plumbing"\fP
.EE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
pcsname(1), pcsprojinfo(1), bb(1), vmail(1), msgs(1)
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located 
in \f(CW /usr/add-on/pcs/bin \fP
or possibly where ever PCS programs are stored on your system.
This is often 
at \f(CW ${PCS}/bin \fP
on some systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put at one space between all option key 
letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
All previous PCS contributors and administrators.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
