'\" t
.TH PCSPROJINFO 1 0 PCS
.SH NAME
pcsprojinfo \- get or set the PCS project-information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR pcsprojinfo
.OP -u " user" ] [
.OP -s " project-information" ] [
.OP -R " program-root" ] [
.OP -D\fR[=<\fIn\fP>]\fP "" ] [
.OP -V "" ] [
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.SS Introduction
.PP
The \fIpcsprojinfo\fP program
is used by the Personal Communication Services (PCS) user to get or
to set his personal project-information string.
By default the project-information a user is set by the
system administrator, but that can be changed by
the use of this program.
By default (without any program options specified)
the project-information string of the user is printed to standard-output.
.\"_
.SS Options
The following options can be used to change the mode of operation.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB-u\fP  \fIusername\fP
Operate on an alternative user besides the default calling user.
Proper privileges are required for setting the project information of
another user.
.TP 15
\fB-s\fP  \fIproject-information\fP
This option allows for setting of the project-information string for the user.
The project-information string should be quoted if it contains 
either whitespace
or other characters that would be interpreted by a SHELL.
.TP 15
\fB-R\fP  \fIprogram-root\fP
This option allows for setting the program-root of the program.
This is largely used for special debugging purposes.
.TP 15
\fB-V\fP
This option makes the program print the version of the program
to standard-error and then causes the program to exit (no other
functions are performed).
.RE
.\"_
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables may change the default behavior of the
program.
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B PCSPROJINFO_PROGRAMROOT
This environment variable is taken to contain
the program root over any other such environment variable.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.\"_
.TP 15
.B PCS
This environment variable is normally taken to contain
the program root.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.\"_
.TP 15
.B PROGRAMROOT
This environment variable is taken to contain
the program root if not other suitable environment variable
this this purpose are in the environment.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.RE
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
simply get the current PCS project-information string:
.EX
 \f(CWpcsprojinfo \fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
get the PCS project-information string for another user:
.EX
 \f(CWpcsprojinfo -u johny\fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
set an organization name:
.EX
 \f(CWpcsprojinfo -s "Acne Plumbing"\fP
.EE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
pcsname(1), pcsorg(1), bb(1), vmail(1), msgs(1)
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located 
in \f(CW /usr/add-on/pcs/bin \fP
or possibly where ever PCS programs are stored on your system.
This is often 
at \f(CW ${PCS}/bin \fP
on some systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put at one space between all option key 
letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
All previous PCS contributors and administrators.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
