.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)msgs.1	6.3 (Berkeley) 5/9/86
.\"
.TH MSGS 1 "0e" PCS
.UC 4
.SH NAME
msgs \- system messages and junk mail program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.B msgs
[
.B \-fhlpq
]
.OP "number | -number" "" ] [
.LP
.B msgs
.B \-s
.LP
.B msgs
.B \-c
[
\-days
]
.OP -V "" ] [
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B msgs
program is used to read system messages.
These messages are
sent by mailing to the login 
.MW msgs
and should be short
pieces of information which are suitable to be read once by most users
of the system.
.PP
.I Msgs
is normally invoked each time you login, by placing it in the file
.I \&.login
.I (\&.profile
if you use
.IR /bin/sh ).
It will then prompt you with the source and subject of each new message.
If there is no subject line, the first few non-blank lines of the
message will be displayed.
If there is more to the message, you will be told how
long it is and asked whether you wish to see the rest of the message.
The possible responses are:
.TP 7
.B h
print out the help (if any)
.TP 7
.B y
print out the rest of the message.
.TP 7
RETURN
synonym for y.
.TP 7
.B n
skip this message
and go on to the next message.
.TP 7
.B \-
redisplay the last message.
.TP 7
.B q
drops you out of
.I msgs;
the next time you run the program it will pick up where you left off.
.TP 7
.B s
append the current message to the file ``Messages'' in the current directory;
`s\-' will save the previously displayed message. A `s' or `s\-' may
be followed by a space and a file name to receive the message replacing
the default ``Messages''.
.TP 7
.B m
or `m\-' causes a copy of the specified message to be placed in a temporary
mailbox and 
.IR mailx (1)
to be invoked on that mailbox.
Both `m' and `s' accept a numeric argument in place of the `\-'.
.TP 7
.B ?
print out the help (if any)
.\'_
.\'_
.PP
.I Msgs
keeps track of the next message you will see by a number in the file
.I \&.msgsrc
in your home directory.
In the directory
.I /var/spool/msgs
the program keeps a set of files whose names are the (sequential) numbers
of the messages they represent.
The file
.I /var/spool/msgs/.msgs_bounds
shows the low and high number of the messages in the directory
so that
.I msgs
can quickly determine if there are no messages for you.
This file is commonly called the \fIbounds\fP file.  The standard
name for this file is \fIbounds\fP but the program dynamically
determines which file name to use giving preference to a file
named \fI.msgs_bounds\fP if both files are present.
If the contents of the
.I bounds
file is incorrect it can be fixed by removing it;
.I msgs
will make a new
.I bounds
file the next time it is run.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option is used for setting up the posting of messages.  The line
.IP
.DT
msgs: "| /usr/add-on/pcs/bin/msgs \-s"
.PP
should be included in the
.I /etc/aliases
mail database (of \fIsendmail\fP) to enable the posting of messages
by email.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option is used for performing cleanup on
.I /var/spool/msgs.
An entry with the
.B \-c
option should be placed in root's
.I crontab
to run every night.  This will remove all messages over 90 days old.
A different expiration may be specified on the command line to override
the default.
.PP
Options when reading messages include:
.TP 7
.B \-f
which causes it not to say ``No new messages.''.
This is useful in your
.I \&.login
file since this is often the case here.
.TP 7
.B \-q
Queries whether there are messages, printing
``There are new messages.'' if there are.
The command ``msgs \-q'' is often used in login scripts.
.TP 7
.B \-h
causes
.I msgs
to print the first part of messages only.
.TP 7
.B \-l
option causes only locally originated messages to be reported.
.TP 7
\fInum\fR
A message number can be given
on the command line, causing
.I msgs
to start at the specified message rather than at the next message
indicated by your
.I \&.msgsrc
file.
Thus
.IP "" 7
    msgs \-h 1
.IP "" 7
prints the first part of all messages.
.TP 7
.I "\-number"
will cause
.I msgs
to start
.I number
messages back from the one indicated by your 
.I \&.msgsrc
file, useful for reviews of recent messages.
.TP 7
.B \-p
prevents long messages from being piped through
.IR more (1).
.PP
Within
.I msgs
you can also go to any specific message by typing its number when
.I msgs
requests input as to what to do.
.\"_
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 20
.B
/var/spool/msgs
This directory contains the message files and the \fIbounds\fP type file
used by the program for operational purposes.
.TP
.B
/var/spool/msgs/.msgs_bounds
This file is the prefered \fIbounds\fP type file.
.TP
.B
/var/spool/msgs/bounds
This file is used as the \fIbounds\fP type file when a file 
named \fI.msgs_bounds\fP is not present.
.TP
.B
~/.msgsrc	
This file (in the user's HOME login directory) contains the 
number of the next message to be presented.  This file is
used when the MSGSRC environment variable (described below) is not
set.
.\"_
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
The following environment variables are used by the program:
.TP 30
.B
MSGSRC
This environment variable holds the name of the user's MSGSRC type file.
The MSGSRC type file holds the record of which messages a user has already
read.  If this environment variable is not set, the default MSGSRC
file is 
.B ~/.msgsrc
which is located in the user's HOME directory as indicated.
If this environment vaiable does not contain an absolute file path,
the user's HOME directory is prepended.
.TP 30
.B
MSGSDIR
This environment variable can be used to change the location
of the spool directory used to hold the message files.
.TP 30
.B
MSGS_SPOOLDIR
This environment variable can be used to change the location
of the spool directory used to hold the message files.
This environment variable is only used if the MSGSDIR environment
variable above is not set.
.TP
.B
LINES
This environment variable can be set to hold the number of lines
that will be used by the program on the terminal screen.
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
crontab(1), mail(1), more(1), sendmail(1m), aliases(4)
.\"_
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
William Joy
.br
David Wasley
.br
The program has been enhanced (for PCS and POP3 bulletin compatibility)
and otherwise modified substantially by
David Morano.
.\"_
.SH BUGS
.PP
No bugs are known to exist at this time.
.\"_
