.\"_
.TH BBNEWS 1 "2k" PCS
.SH NAME
bbnews, bbr, bbpost, rbbpost \- bulletin board services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR bbnews
.RI [ newsgroup(s) "... ]"
[ \fB-subject\fP | \fB-newsgroups\fP | \fB-count\fP |
.in +2
\&\fB-catchup\fP | \fB-mailbox\fP | -\fIshowlines\fP
\&\fB-query[=\fItext_string\fP] |
\&\fB-subscribe\fP | \fB-unsubscribe\fP | \fB-description\fP ]
\&\fB-new\fP | \fB-old\fP | \fBall\fP | \fB-every\fP ]
.br
.OP -a "" ] [
.OP -e "" ] [
.OP -r "" ] [
.OP -o "options" ] [
.OP -u " bbnewsrc" ] [
.OP -sort "mode" ] [
.OP -interactive "" ] [
.OP -V? "" ] [
.OP -L " termlines" ] [
.OP -N " newsspooldir" ] [
.in -2
.br
.B bbr
[\fInewsgroup(s)\fP ...]
.OP -a "" ] [
.OP -e "" ] [
.br
.B bbpost
[\fInewsgroup\fP]
.OP -edit "" ] [
.OP -s " subject" ] [
.OP -a " attachment" ] [
.br
.B rbbpost
\fInewsgroup\fP
.\"_
.nr Hy 0
.ad b
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These programs provide enhancements
over the standard UNIX \fInews\fP mechanism
that include simplified preparation,
the categorization of articles by interest group,
and the concurrent posting of bulletins on multiple machines.
This system also provides advantages over the old UNIX \fImsgs\fP
system.
These programs are part of a software tool package
called \fIPersonal Communication Services\fP or
.B PCS
in abbreviated form.
The PCS software tools are a set of
cooperating and integrated programs that perform personal
communication and management type functions for users.
Some services
available with the PCS package include: mail, bulletin board, message
display, calendar, and event reminder type services.
Only the bulletin board related programs are primarily discussed
further here.
.\"_
.PP
Basically, the bulletin board facility consists of a newsgroup
spool area (someplace in the UNIX file systems)
which contains \fIarticles\fP which have been posted to
various \fInewsgroups\fP within the news spool area.
Articles are similar to email messages and are placed on
various newsgroups or "bulletin boards".
A newsgroup is a subarea within the entire news spool area
that contains articles which are usually related by similar subject matter.
The notion of what articles belong to which newsgroup is
purely a user one and the system doesn't try to enforce
any policy of where user articles should be posted.
Hierarchical newsgroups are supported.
When newsgroups are nested within each other, the name
of the newsgroup is a composite type of name similar to a UNIX
path name but with periods used to separate parent newsgroup names
from the subnewsgroups within them.
Newsgroups can be nested to any level.
Some example newsgroup names might look like:
.EX
general
general.newuser
tools
tools.i286
tools.mc68
tools.latk
tools.ogs
news.ho
news.lz
news.dr
msgs.ho
msgs.lz
misc
.EE
.\"_
Associated with each newsgroup and user is the concept of currency.
Currency refers to the last time a user has read the articles on any
particular newsgroup.
All articles which have been created or modified since the last
time the newsgroup was read are considered current.
.PP
A user can individually subscribe to the newsgroups of their choice.
The normal means to subscribe or unsubscribe to newsgroups, if selected
subscription is even wanted, is usually performed by either using
the \fIbb\fP program's command line options
.MW "-subscribe"
and
.MW "-unsubscribe"
or interactively while reading newsgroups by using the interactive
commands
.MW "subscribe"
and
.MW "unsubscribe."
Once at least one newsgroup is subscribed to, only that newsgroup
and any others specified in the environment variable
.MW BBBDS
will be selected for processing (interactively or not) by default.
Any newsgroups which are subscribed using the \fIbb\fP
subscription mechanisms are added to the set of
default newsgroups presented to the user.
Any newsgroups subscribed to
by using the \fIbb\fP program's subscription mechanisms can
usually \fBonly\fP
be unsubscribed also by using the \fIbb\fP program's unsubscription
mechanism.
This is because the \fIbb\fP program stores subscription
information in the user's newsgroup list file
(usually
.MW .bbnewsrc
in the user's HOME directory).
rather than user's
login program program environment (as older subscription mechanisms
did).
Default newsgroups to be selected for reading (or other processing)
can also be specified by the environment variable
.MW BBBDS.
This can be set by either manual editing of the user's login profile
related information (usually in the user's file
.MW .pcsprofile
)
or by means of one or more utility type programs designed to aid in
bulletin board newsgroup selection and subscription.
Finally, (and highly not recommended) newsgroups can also
be subscribed to by manual
editing of the user's newsgroup list file
Within the user newsgroup
list file, those newsgroups followed by an exclamation character
are considered unsubscribed while those followed by a colon character
are considered subscribed.
A union of the list of newsgroups
in the environment variable
.MW BBBDS
and the subscription information
from the user's newsgroup list file is used as the default set of
newsgroups to scan for new articles.
Other newsgroups can be scanned
for articles when one or more newsgroups are given on the command
line at the invocation of the \fIbb\fP program.
.\"_
.SS "The \fIbb\fP Program"
.PP
When invoked without arguments, the
.I
bb
program prints all unread articles
on the set of newsgroups selected for reading
and updates the user's currency time with respect to these newsgroups.
When invoked with a newsgroup name,
the program prints the unread articles and updates the
currency time on that newsgroup.
.PP
The default behavior of the program in the absence of any of the
options:
.EX
-subject
-newsgroups
-count
-catchup
-query
-mailbox
-subscribe
-unsubscribe
.EE
is to read unread articles from the newsgroups that are selected
for reading by the user.
By default, selected newsgroups are
those that the user is subscribed to.
If the user has listed
one or more newsgroups on the command line, then these are used
instead of the user's subscribed newsgroups.
The program displays each unread article from the selected
newsgroups and then
pauses to prompt the user for one of the following commands:
.RS 12
.TP 10
.I Command
.I Action
.TP
.B next
This command displays the next unread article.
This is default action and can also
be entered with a plain carriage return.
.TP
.B previous
This command can be used to possibly display the previous
(already read) article in the current newsgroup.
Currently, there are limitations to this command.
Since newsgroups
can actually be realized by multiple directories in the UNIX file
systems, not all previous articles are currently available for
retrieval due to limitations in the software.
Only previous articles
that are stored in the same UNIX directory can be retrieved.
Also, previous articles that the user read in previous bulletin
board reading sessions are currently not available either.
One or both of these restrictions may be removed in the future.
.TP
.B review
Display this article again.
.TP
.B follow
This command is used to follow-up on the current article by posting
a new article to the same newsgroup.
The \fIbbpost\fP program
is invoked so that the user can enter a follow-up article.
.TP
.B reply
invoke
.I pcsmail
(or \fIsendmail\fP)
with the recipient and subject defaulted.
This is analogous to the
reply in
.I readmail
and facilitates responses to the author of an article.
.TP
.B save
This command saves the previously read article (the current one)
in the user's "new" mailbox.
.TP
.B print
Print out the previously read article to the user's default printer
as specified with the
.MW PRINTER
environment variable.
The article is printed in a specially prepared format for news articles.
Essentially, about two pages worth of
article are printed per paper page in landscape orientation.
The underlying
print mechanism that is invoked is the PCS print program
\fIprt-pcsmail\fP.
This command can take additional options.
Any options specified are passed down to the \fIprt-pcsmail\fP program.
This is most commonly used to change the printer destination or
the number of copies with a command like:
.EX
print -d di2 -c 2 -s 2
.EE
.\"_
.TP
.B subscribe
This command marks the current newsgroup as being subscribed to the user.
This newsgroup will now be presented (or processed) by default for the
user.
Note that newsgroups can also be essentially subscribed to if
they are named in the
.MW BBBDS
environment variable on all program invocations (even if otherwise
unsubscribed to using this command or by other means).
.TP
.B unsubscribe
This command marks the current newsgroup as being unsubscribed by the
user.
This newsgroup (the current one) will no longer be presented to the
user by default
unless the user uses the \fI-e\fP option on the program invocation (or some
other means of getting the newsgroup presented).
Note that newsgroups will still be presented to the user if they happen
to be named in the
.MW BBBDS
environment variable.
.TP
.B Next
This command is used to skip reading the rest of
articles in the newsgroups that is currently being read and start displaying
unread articles from the next newsgroup that has any unread articles (if there
is one).
Articles that are skipped are marked as being read.
.br
\fBThis command is not implemented yet\fP.
.TP
.B Previous
This command is used to go back to a previous newsgroup
and start reading the last article in that newsgroup.
.br
\fBThis command is not implemented yet and may not be for quite a while\fP.
.TP
.B Skip
This command is used to skip reading the rest of
articles in the newsgroup that is currently being read and start displaying
unread articles from the next newsgroup that has any unread articles (if there
is one).
Articles that are skipped are not marked as being read.
.TP
.B Catchup
This command is used to skip reading the rest of
articles in the newsgroup that is currently being read and start displaying
unread articles from the next newsgroup that has any unread articles (if there
is one).
Articles that are skipped are marked as being read.
.br
\fBThis command is not implemented yet\fP.
.TP
.B quit
Terminate bulletin board reading (and update currency).
.TP
.B ?
This prints out some brief help consisting of some of the commands and
their function.
.TP
.B Save
This is a sneaky (previously undocumented) command which appears
to suspend the current bulletin board reading session but the
exact consequences of this is not known by the author and the user is
advised to play with this at her own risk.
.TP
.B | \fI(pipe character)\fP
This is a previously undocumented command which pipes the
current article out to a program specified after the pipe character.
This is an experimental command.
.TP
.B > \fI(redirect output character)\fP
This is a previously undocumented command which writes the
current article out to a file name which follows after the output redirect
character.
This is an experimental command.
.RE
.PP
The
.I bb
program may also be invoked with the following options
preceded by a "-" character (or "+" in the case of the
.MW old
option -- depreciated).
These options can usually be
specified in as few letters as
necessary to distinguish them uniquely.
Only one option of:
.EX
-subject
-newsgroups
-count
-catchup
-query
-mailbox
-subscribe
-unsubscribe
.EE
(or
.MW +old
if still supported by the system),
may be specified at one time.
In the absence of one of these
preceding options, the program \fBread\fPs unread articles on
the newsgroups selected.
Along with the modes of the program
specified with the options listed above, these are basically
the main functions (not
including that provided by
.MW +old
\&) that the program performs.
Unless the "
.MW -e
\&" option
is specified, only the newsgroups
to which the user has subscribed will be accessed.

The execution mode of the program can be changed with
the following command line options:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B "-subject"
Display the subjects of articles.
.TP
.B "-newsgroups"
List the names of the newsgroups.
An old option (\fB-boards\fP)
performs the same function as this option.
.TP
.B "-count"
This option causes the number of articles on each newsgroup
(specified or subscribed to by the user) which are newer than the
user's corresponding currency time for each specified newsgroup
to be counted and the resulting counts outputted.
.TP
.B "-query"
This option simply determines if there are any unread articles in the
user's subscribed newsgroups which have not been read yet.
The usual purpose for this option is to quickly determine if
new articles have been posted to the system since the last time
the user read any of them.
Similar to the
.MW "-subject"
and the
.MW "-count"
options, this option is useful to put into one's login profile
so that the user can be notified of new articles when logging into the
system.
If the option is given in the form with the optional text string, as in:
.EX
bb -query="New articles."
.EE
then the text string is printed out if there are new unread articles
available.
.TP
.B "-catchup"
This option causes the user's currency file to be brought up-to-date
as if the user just read all of the unread articles in the newsgroups
that the user is subscribed to.
This is very useful for new users that
do not yet have a currency file and need to catchup with reading
the articles without having to actually read all of the outstanding
ones.
New users can also copy a currency file from another user
as a way to "catchup" also.
.TP
.B "-subscribe"
This option causes any named newsgroups on the command line
to be marked as subscribed.
Reference the interactive "subscribe"
command above for more information.
This option cannot be used when the default set of the user's
newsgroups are selected.
This default set of newsgroups is
selected when no newsgroups are named on the program invocation.
.TP
.B "-unsubscribe"
This option causes any named newsgroups on the command line
to be marked as unsubscribed.
Reference the interactive "unsubscribe"
command above for more information.
This option cannot be used when the default set of the user's
newsgroups are selected.
This default set of newsgroups is
selected when no newsgroups are named on the program invocation.
.TP
.B "+old"
Print the subjects of all articles regardless of currency.
This
option is depreciated in favor of:
.EX
bb -subject -a
.EE
which provides the same function.
.RE
.PP
The following options display information about the
program:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B "-V"
The program's version is printed to standard error and then the
program exits.
.TP
.B "-?"
This option causes the program to print a brief description of
command line options and then the program exists.
.TP
.B "-D"
This option causes internal program debugging information to
be written to standard error as the program executes.
.RE
.sp
The behavior of the \fIbb\fP program can be modified with the following
options:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.BI "-L" "  termlines"
This option sets the number of terminal lines that will
be used by the program to \fItermlines\fP.
This will
override the
.MW LINES
environment variable if it is specified.
.TP
.B "-showlines"
This argument set the number of article content lines that
are displayed in interactive reading mode.
The number of lines shown by default are determined by the
number of lines supported (or specified) for the terminal
being used.
The actual number of article content lines shown will always be
less than or equal to the value determined from the number of terminal
lines present regardless of the setting of this argument value.
.TP
\fB-o\fP
This option modifies the program behavior to act only on
"old" articles rather than the default behavior which is to
act only on "new" articles.
The definitions of "old" and "new"
are relative with respect to the user's newsgroup currency time.
If the
.MW -a
option is also supplied, it takes precedence over this option.
.TP
\fB-a\fP
Display all articles for whatever newsgroups are selected,
regardless of currency, both "old" and "new".
This option takes precedence over the
.MW -o
option if it is also
present.
.TP
\fB-r\fP
This option is used to reverse the order in which articles
are visited.
Normally when this option is omitted, articles
are visited oldest first and latest last.
If this option is
given, then articles are visited latest first and oldest last.
.TP
\fB-e\fP
Modify the behavior of the \fIbb\fP program to make reference to every
newsgroup that exists in
the bulletin board spool directory area (BBDIR).
When combined with other options,
this permits newsgroups that are not subscribed to by the user to be accessed.
.TP
.B "-interactive"
This option selects whether
.I bb
behaves interactively or not.
The presence of this option means that
the program will \fBnot\fP run interactively.
Actually the program runs non-interactively for all program modes
except for the regular reading of news articles.
This option is used to make the regular reading of news articles
non-interactive also!
The most common use of this is to catch up on unread articles
non-interactively.
Some cleaver users
may use the non-interactive mode of the program to simply get the articles
written out for postprocessing of some sort.
The "mailbox" option is
usually better for this sort of use but non-interactive mode is retained
for backward compatibility for some old time users.
This option is only used during "read" mode operation.
.TP
.B "-mailbox"
This option is used by the \fIbbr\fP program (described later)
to have the news articles
(selected by currency time)
formatted for use by a mail reading program like \fBvmail\fP
or \fBreadmail\fP.
This option can also be used by those users who
want to write various article filtering programs or the like for
article sorting or alternate presentations.
This option only has meaning while \fBread\fPing articles.
This option is only used during "read" mode operation.
.TP
.B "-description"
This option can only appear alone (like most other
program mode options) or in conjunction with the
.MW "-count"
option.
When used with the
.MW "-count"
option, the unread newsgroup article counts are printed
(only for newsgroups with unread articles unless the
.MW "-a"
or
.MW "-o"
options are also specified.
The newsgroups description, if there are any, are printed after
the newsgroup names and article counts.
If the
.MW "-description"
option is specified alone,
then all subscribed newsgroups are listed whether or not
there are unread articles on them.
The information printed
looks the same as the use with the
.MW "-count"
option except that no article counts are given.
.TP
.BI "-sort" "  mode"
This options allows for changing which date associated
the articles in the newgroups to sort on.
The following sorting modes are available:
.RS 20
.TP 15
modify
This is specified to use the modification date of the article.
This is usually the same or similar to the date that
the article was spooled on the local system but can sometimes
be later.
.TP 15
arrive
This is the date that the article arrived at the local system.
.TP 15
post
This is the date that the article was posted by the originating user.
.TP 15
compose
This is the date that the article was composed by the originating user.
.RE
The default sorting mode is
.MW modify
unless another is explicitly set.
The
.MW -r
option can still be used with any of these sorting modes.
.TP 15
.BI "-envdate" "  date"
This option can be used to assign a date to the article envelope.
The envelope of the article is not of general usefulness but
can sometimes be used in conjuction with other software that
can manage or otherwise manipulate articles in some way.
Normally, this option is only useful in conjuction with
the
.MW -mailbox
option.

Any previous envelope on each article (if it had one) is
pushed down the envelope stack and a new envelope is formed
with the new date specified.
The new date can be any one of the following literals:
.RS 20
.TP 15
modify
Use the article's modification date as the envelope date.
.TP 15
arrive
Use the arrival date of the article as the new envelope date.
.TP 15
post
Use the posting date of the article as the new envelope date.
.TP 15
compose
Use the composition date of the article as the new envelope date.
.TP 15
now
Use the current date (and current time) of the article as the new
envelope date.
.TP 15
.I yymmddHHMMSSZZZ
Use a date created from the string of digits (and followed by
an optional time name) as the new date for the envelope.
.RE
All articles that are processed during the current run will
receive a new envelope with the requested date.
.TP 15
.BI "-envfrom" "  from_address"
This option allows for setting a new email address in the
envelope of articles that are processed.
Normally, this option is only useful in conjuction with
the
.MW -mailbox
option.
The
.I from_address
component should for a standard email address.
.RE
.sp
The following program invocation options to the
.MW bb
program provide for testing:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B "-ROOT \fIprogramroot\fP"
This argument provides for the program root for this execution of
the
.MW bb
program to be changed to the \fIprogramroot\fP directory path.
Without the use of this argument, the program will use the value
of the
.MW PCS
environment variable to get its root directory.
In the absence of the
.MW PCS
environment variable, some default is tried (usually '
.MW /usr/add-on/pcs
\&').
.TP
.B "-TMPDIR \fItmpdir\fP"
This argument can be used to change the directory used to hold
temporary files.
In the absence of this argument, the environment variable
.MW TMPDIR
is tried to get a directory to use for temporary files.
In the absense of even the environment variable, the directory
.MW /tmp
is usually used.
.RE
.sp
.\"_
.SS "The \fIbbr\fP Program"
.PP
The
.I "bbr"
program collects all the "current" articles from the user's selected
newsgroups and
puts them into the user's mailbox \fIbbtemp\fP (user's file
.MW ${HOME}/mail/bbtemp
) suitable for viewing with a mail reader program like
.I
rdmail
or
.I
vmail
\&.
These articles extracted by the
.I bbr
program are no longer considered
"current" and will not show up in a command like when
.MW "bb -subject"
is run.
.\"_
.SS "The \fIbbpost\fP Program"
.PP
The
.I bbpost
program is used for preparing and posting
articles to newsgroups.
The user is prompted
for the newsgroups
(sometimes referred to as a \fIboard\fP)
to post to
(prompt is
.MW NEWSGROUP
or
.MW NEWSGROUPS
),
the subject of the article (prompt is
.MW SUBJECT
), and the text of the article.
The
.I bbpost
program adds
\fIFROM\fP
and
\fIDATE\fP
information to the article before submission into the bulletin
board system.
.PP
After the article is entered by the user,
.I bbpost
prompts for one of the following commands:
.RS 12
.TP 10
.I Command
.I Action
.TP
.B post
Post the article to the specified newsgroup.
.TP
.B review
Print out the article for review by the user.
.TP
.B edit
Edit the article (the NEWSGROUPS and SUBJECT fields may also
be edited).
.TP
.B quit
Terminate session without posting the article.
.RE
.PP
The
.I bbpost
program then posts the article to the bulletin board system.
Note that posted articles are usually transported throughout the bulletin
board system which may contain many machines with several different
newsgroup spool areas.
Up to an hour or more of time may be needed
for an article to appear in other machine spool areas,
depending on how articles are transported.
.PP
If the
.MW edit
option is used, \fIbbpost\fP will enter the editor for
the typing of the message.
The "
.MW -s
\fIsubject\fP" command line option will bypass asking
the user for a subject and will use the supplied subject (specified by
\fIsubject\fP) instead.
If \fIsubject\fP has spaces or other shell
offending characters in it, it should be quoted appropriately so that
the shell will leave it alone.
The "
.MW -a
\fIattachment\fP" command line option will append a file
specified as \fIattachment\fP to the composed article.
The program will
still ask the user to enter some text and after the user types
the period character to end the text, the program appends the
specified file.
If the user now "edit"s or "review"s the article,
the attachment will be seen and can be further edited it desired.
.\"_
.SS "The \fIrbbpost\fP Program"
.PP
The
.I rbbpost
program is similar to the \fIbbpost\fP program in that it is used to
post an article into the bulletin board system.
This command differs
significantly from the \fIbbpost\fP program in that it is completely
non-interactive.
This command reads an article file on its standard
input only and posts it to the newsgroup specified as the program's
invocation argument.
The input file is assumed to be
in an article format already.
An article formatted file is similar
to a file formatted as a mail message and in fact this is the most
common use for this command ; namely, to post mail message files
from a user's mail reading program.
Actually, any input file that
minimally begins with a blank line is acceptable and the \fIrbbpost\fP
program will add some additional article headers as appropriate
if necessary.
.PP
A typical example of using this program is to post an article
from a user's mail reading program such as PCS \fIvmail\fP or
PCS \fIreadmail\fP.
In these mail readers, the user would
"pipe" the current message to the \fIrbbpost\fP program with
a command sequence similar to:
.EX
| rbbpost \fInewsgroup\fP
.EE
where \fInewsgroup\fP is the name of a valid newsgroup for the
system such as:
.EX
misc
general
.EE
and so forth.
.PP
Similarly as the \fIbb\fP program is the heart of the newsgroup
reading subsystem, the \fIrbbpost\fP is really the heart of the posting
subsystem.
Most \fIbbpost\fP like programs actually call \fIrbbpost\fP
to actually insert the article into the bulletin board system's news
flow.
This program is the responsible entity for queuing articles
up for transmission to administered neighboring sites.
See the
.MW rbbpost
program for information on how articles are transferred around the
network.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
Most people put the following command line in their login startup
profiles to list out the subjects of new articles posted in the newsgroups for
which the user is subscribed:
.EX
bb -subject -count
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
Another old time command line for login startup
profiles is to just give notice of whether there are new unread articles.
.EX
bb -query
.EE
Again, this only prints the message if there are new unread articles
for which the user is subscribed.
This is similar to the use of:
.EX
msgs -q
.EE
in the old days when there was only the \fBmsgs\fP facility.
This just prints a line saying that there are new articles.
If there are no new articles, nothing is printed.
.IP \(rh 5
To just read unread articles from the user's subscribed newsgroups,
execute:
.EX
bb
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To catch up on unread articles, without seeing them, execute:
.EX
bb -catchup
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To read unread articles in the order from the latest one
posted to the earliest one
posted (reversed order):
.EX
bb -r
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the names of all of the user's subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -newsgroups
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the names of all of the newsgroups in the system:
.EX
bb -newsgroups -e
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To search for a newsgroup (
.MW SWAPEX_Classes
in this example)
when you only remember a few characters from
the name of the newsgroup, execute:
.EX
bb -newsgroups -e | fgrep APEX
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the subject header values of unread articles on the user's
subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -subject
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the subject header values of all (old and new) articles on the user's
subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -subject -a
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the subject header values of all articles on all
newsgroups in the system:
.EX
bb -subject -a -e
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the count of unread articles on the user's
subscribed newsgroups:
.EX
bb -count
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the count of all old articles still in a specific newsgroup (the
newsgroup \fIgeneral\fP in this case), the following could be executed:
.EX
bb -count -o general
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To subscribe to a newsgroup (like the
newsgroup \fIgeneral\fP for example), the following could be executed:
.EX
bb -subscribe general
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To subscribe to the newsgroup  named \fIgeneral\fP
and all of the newsgroups which start with the string \fImsgs\fP,
.EX
bb -subscribe general 'msgs*'
.EE
Note that when ever a "*" character is used, care must be observed to
not have it mistakenly expanded by the SHELL.
.IP \(rh 5
To get a description of the newsgroups
.I general
and
.I tools.pcs,
the following could be executed:
.EX
bb general tool.pcs -desc
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the descriptions for all newsgroups that the user is subscribed to,
the following could be executed:
.EX
bb -desc
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get newsgroup descriptions for only those newsgroups which have
unread articles which are also subscribed (or set to otherwise be processed by
default) by the user,
the following could be executed:
.EX
bb -count -desc
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To get the newsgroup descriptions for all newsgroups currently in the system,
the following could be executed:
.EX
bb -desc -e
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To unsubscribe to a newsgroup (like the
newsgroup \fIgeneral\fP for example), the following could be executed:
.EX
bb -unsubscribe general
.EE
.\"_
.SH "POPULAR NEWSGROUPS"
.PP
Some of the more popular newsgroups are listed below.
Some of these newsgroups are read-only to normal users.
Those newsgroups that are read-only or that may have other restrictions
are identified as such below.
Some newsgroups are also
accessible (can be posted to) from outside of GBCS via email.
Your PCS bulletin board administrator
(listed at the end of this manual page)
will have information
on which newsgroups can be posted to via email.
.PP
The descriptions of the more popular newsgroups are:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B general
This newsgroup is meant to exchange articles on general items
related to work.
Do not use this newsgroup for non-work related
topics.
.TP
.B "general.newuser"
This newsgroup carries information useful to new members
of the GBCS R&D or other basic information useful for using the R&D
computing environment for the fist time.
.TP
.B misc
Use this newsgroup for all non-work related items.
.TP
.B events
This newsgroup is used for work related events coming up
like organizational wide meetings or other corporate AT&T
activities.
.TP
.B "events.courses"
This newsgroup is used to provide information on general
courses available that may not normally be carried on any other newsgroup.
.TP
.B "workplace"
This newsgroup is used for the exchange of workplace, or quality of
workplace, related issues.
.TP
.B tools
This newsgroup is used for the exchange of tool related
information.
Watch this newsgroup for new R&D-wide computer tools
and tool updates including PCS related tools.
.TP
.B luncheons
This is used for the posting of all luncheon announcements.
.TP
.B jobposts
This newsgroup is read-only (to normal users) and is used to provide
information on job openings within GBCS (usually the R&D community).
.TP
.B ATT_today
This newsgroup (also read-only) carries the \fIAT&T Today\fP electronic
newsletter.
.TP
.B test
This newsgroup can be used by new users to test out posting an article
to the system.
.TP
.B news
This newsgroup and related subnewsgroups are usually used
by the computer center to post computing environment related
information (usually of a transient nature).
This newsgroup
is special in that it is really cross posted from the UNIX News
facility.
Posts may or may not be possible to this newsgroup
depending on how the computing administrators set it up.
Sometimes, posts can be made to this
newsgroup but will not be readable using the UNIX \fInews\fP
program.
Ask your PCS bulletin board administrator (listed at the end of this
manual page) for information about how posting (if any) can be
made to this newsgroup.
.TP
.B msgs
This newsgroup, or its subnewsgroups, are used to hold all articles
that were mailed into the system through the UNIX MSGS facility.
Although articles can be posted to this newsgroup like any other
using a PCS program like \fIbbpost\fP,
these posted articles will normally \fBnot\fP be available
to the UNIX \fBMSGS\fP system reader program \fImsgs\fP.
Generally, it is advised that the \fImsgs\fP program be used
for posting to this newsgroup for articles to be available to both
systems (MSGS and PCS) simulatneously (as generally intended).
.RE
.sp
Many projects usually have project specific newsgroups for
various purposes.
Contact your project's process or methodology people
for information on newsgroups specific to your project.
A full list of all of the newsgroups on the system at any time can
be made by executing:
.EX
bb -newsgroups -e
.EE
Requests for the creation of new newsgroups should be made to the
PCS bulletin board administrator.
.\"_
.SH "ADMINISTRATION"
.PP
.SS "Site-wide Configuration"
.PP
The PCS Bulletin Board system is currently
composed of primarily two subsystems.
These are the "reading" subsystem and the "posting" subsystem.
The reading subsystem is primarily made up from various modes
of executing the \fIbb\fP program.
Similarly, the posting
subsystem usually ends up executing, in one way or another, the
\fIrbbpost\fP program.
Both of these programs, and aspects of
other ancillary utility programs, take site-wide PCS configuration
information from the PCS
.MW ${PCS}/etc/conf
like file.
Specifically, the "fromhost", "mailhost", and "uucphost"
entries should be properly specificed as appropriate for a given site
configuration.
Additionally, the files under
.MW ${PCS}/etc/bb
should also be modified to properly reflect alias hosts for
the current site (specified through the
.MW ${PCS}/etc/bb/bbnames
file), and to specify neighboring sites to receive article postings
(through the
.MW ${PCS}/etc/bb/bbhosts
file).
.\"_
.SS "Newsgroup Spool Area"
.PP
Each newsgroup is actually one or more directories in a
news spool area someplace in the UNIX file systems.
A newsgroup is really a logical concept and is realized by
one or more UNIX directories which all have the same "newsgroup"
name from the start of the newsgroup spool area directory.
The appearance of a directory any place
in the hierarchy of the spool area is automatically considered to
make a newsgroup (if it is a new one) and is scanned for new articles.
Symbolic links are followed when traversing the newsgroup spool area.
Symbolic links allow for several possibilities including expanding the
apparent newsgroup spool area to a size larger than a physical UNIX file
system.
Other possibilities can include linking more than one newsgroup
together to provide a physical newsgroup by two or more apparent names.
The hierarchy of newsgroups follows the UNIX directory hierarchy of
the newsgroup spool area.
Specifically, subdirectories are taken
to be subnewsgroups.
Both parent newsgroups and subnewsgroups can
contain articles.
Newsgroup nesting can occur to any level desired.
Hierarchical newsgroups are
also realized when a UNIX directory name has one or more period
characters in it.
The period in these sorts of directory names separates the parent newsgroup
name (which can never contain any articles since there is no
actual physical directory associated with it) from the subnewsgroup
name.
The directory itself would hold articles
for the subnewsgroup in this case.
Full newsgroup names made up
by both of the above mechanisms can exist simultaneously in the
spool area and they are taken to reference the same apparent newsgroup
to the user.
All articles in any newsgroups found with the same
apparent name are scanned and taken to be in that single apparent
newsgroup.
This mechanism, along with symbolic links, can make
for some involved newsgroup structures which may or may not serve
particular administrators.
Finally, there is no limit to the number of newsgroups that can exist.
.\"_
.SS "Newsgroup Descriptions"
.PP
The PCS or Bulletin Board administrator can create descriptions of
the various newsgroups by creating a file named
.MW ".desc"
in any directory which forms all or part of the newsgroup for
which a description is desired.
Usually this file contains a simple
one-line description of the newsgroup but there is no restriction on the
number of lines of text that the tool will process.
These files (the
.MW ".desc"
files) are processed by the
.I bb
program when the user invokes the program with the
.MW "-description"
option.
If a newsgroup is made up of more than a single directory, all
of the
.MW ".desc"
file contents will be presented to the user if that newsgroup
is selected for processing according to the user's
newsgroup subscriptions
or the other options given to the
.I bb
program.
Therefor, it is only necessary, generally, to place one of these
.MW ".desc"
files in one of the directories which makes up a multi-directory
newsgroup.
.\"_
.SS "Articles"
.PP
Each article is actually realized as an individual file in a newsgroup
directory.
The UNIX modification times of the article files are
taken to be the posted date of the articles.
Although the UNIX
modification
time of an article file is used to determine if that article
has been read by a user, the UNIX modification time of the newsgroup
directory that the article file is located in is also important.
When scanning for new articles, no newsgroup directories are entered
that have a modification time older than the currency time stored
for that newsgroup in the user's newsgroup list file.
Old articles
can only be made to be freshly current by also updating the modification
time of the newsgroup directory that the article is in.
This is
rather automatic for new articles placed into a directory since the
modification time of the directory is updated automatically
when new directory entries are made.
.PP
Articles should be formatted as RFC 822 like mail messages (UNIX
mail messages) in order to be properly processed by the PCS
article reading programs.
The PCS requirement for properly
formatted mail messages is a rather lenient one in that any file
with at least a leading blank line (a null header section followed
by a mail message body) is allowed.
Finally, there is currently a limit of 1000 articles allowed per
newsgroup.
This is a compile time variable which would require
a recompile of the program \fIbb\fP in order for this to be changed.
.\"_
.SS "Expiring Articles"
.PP
The easiest way for an administrator to expire articles is to
simply have their corresponding files removed from the newsgroup spool
area.
This can be accomplished with various UNIX utilities for
selecting files based on modification times.
Administrators can
also search for files ignoring symbolic links or UNIX mount
points.
These sorts of techniques can be used to not expire
articles that are in symbolically linked directories or in other
file systems.
A simple example of expiring articles could be a \fIcron\fP
program which executes:
.EX
find $BBDIR -type f -mtime +22 -exec rm -f {} \;
.EE
Other strategies are possible and are left to the
industrious system administrators out there.
.\"_
.SS Other
.PP
Secretly, the program \fIbbr\fP simply calls the \fIbb\fP program with the
.MW mailbox
option to do most of its work.
Under some circumstances,
the PCS mail reader
program \fIvmail\fP also calls the \fIbb\fP program with the
.MW mailbox
option when a user of \fIvmail\fP uses it to "change" into their \fIbbtemp\fP
mailbox.
In this later case, the \fIbb\fP program ensures that the user's
\fIbbtemp\fP mailbox is "up-to-date" so that the \fIvmail\fP program
shows the current state of the updated mailbox.
.PP
The \fIrbbpost\fP program is suitably capable of being
executed by the UUCP system as a result of a remotely executed
\fIuux\fP command.
This provides one means of posting
articles to a system from outside of the system.
A remote user would execute something like:
.EX
uux -p mtgbcs!rbbpost misc < mail_msg_formatted_file
.EE
to get the message in the \fImail_msg_formatted_file\fP posted to
newsgroup \fImisc\fP within the PCS bulletin board system
on machine \fImtgbcs\fP.
Of course, this capability requires the
UUCP system administrator to setup the \fIrbbpost\fP program
in the UUCP system \fIPermissions\fP file.
.PP
If the administrator has the MSGS system spool area directory
coincide with a PCS bulletin board newsgroup (reference the
discussion in the next section), then users can also
effectively post messages to the coincident newsgroup by emailing
to the local email alias \fImsgs\fP.
This requires that the \fImsgs\fP
email alias has been setup on the local mail system.
Users could then
post messages to the
.I msgs
spool directory and the PCS newsgroup spool area newsgroup
by executing something like:
.EX
msgs -s < mail_msg_formatted_file
.EE
similarly to the previous example with the \fIrbbpost\fP program.
The \fImsgs\fP program can also be executed by the UUCP system
due to a remote execution of \fIuux\fP if the command is properly
setup by the UUCP administrator in the UUCP system \fIPermissions\fP
file.
.\"_
.SH "COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER NEWS SYSTEMS"
.PP
The protocol used for the storage of articles in the PCS bulletin board
system is
similar to both the standard \fINetnews\fP system and the old \fImsgs\fP
facility for UNIX systems.
Since articles are stored in the PCS
bulletin board system as mail messages (of a sort),
a high degree of compatibility
is achieved with both standard RFC 822 mail systems (including UNIX mail)
and the old UNIX \fPmsgs\fP system (which was popular on older BSD
systems).
.\"_
.SS "UNIX MSGS System"
.PP
Compatibility is almost automatic with the UNIX \fImsgs\fP
system.
With the exception of a file usually named \fIbounds\fP
in the \fImsgs\fP spool area, all message articles
can be cross posted to the PCS news spool area.
One or more newsgroups
by the name \fBmsgs\fP or \fBmsgs.\fP\fIlocation\fP can be created
under the PCS news spool area to hold the message files which are
created under the \fImsgs\fP (proper) spool area.
If the spool
areas (the \fImsgs\fP system spool directory and a PCS newsgroup directory)
are in fact one and the same, then
the \fImsgs\fP \fIbounds\fP file will almost always be found to
be unread (or current) by the PCS system.
This can be overcome by selectively
cross posting the other files in the \fImsgs\fP area to the
designated newsgroups under the PCS spool area.
An enhanced version of
the older UNIX \fImsgs\fP facility is provided with the PCS package
and can be installed to solve this problem with the \fImsgs\fP \fIbounds\fP
file.
The PCS version uses a file named
.MW .msgs_bounds
as its bounds control file instead
and also, by default, locates the \fImsgs\fP spool area
directory at
.MW ${PCS}/spool/msgs
or something similar.
This default spool
directory can be a symbolic link to a regular PCS newsgroup directory
which is normally desired.
Making the \fImsgs\fP \fIbounds\fP type
file start with a dot (period character) makes the file invisible
to the PCS newsgroup reading programs.
.\"_
.SS "UNIX News System"
.PP
Files (or news items) placed under the UNIX news spool area (usually
.MW /var/news
) are not automatically compatible with the PCS
news system since the UNIX \fInews\fP system's articles are not,
necessarily, in mail message file format.
If all articles posted to the UNIX
\fInews\fP system are minimally formatted as mail messages, then
complete cross posting is supported as well as simply making the
two corresponding news spool areas one and the same.
A minimally
conforming mail message file (for purposes of the PCS news system)
consists of a file with a blank line as the first line.
This leading
blank line is interpreted as the end of the header section of the
mail message and therefor meets the minimal requirements for
a mail message formatted file.
If UNIX \fInews\fP files are not
known to conform to mail messages, then allowing the PCS system
to read them will result in totally unpredictable behavior.
.\"_
.SS "Netnews"
.PP
Full compatibility with the standard Netnews system should be automatic.
Care should be taken to ensure that PCS posted articles conform to
the requirements for Netnews articles.
Restrictions on
the article's FROM header is required for Netnews posting
that is not present in the PCS system.
This is the only known
potential problem.
.\"_
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
The following environment variables
tailor the bulletin board services
to the user's personal preferences.
These variables used to be set and updated by the
PCS profiler program but should now be changed manually by the user
editing her
.MW .pcsprofile
file in her HOME directory.
.TP 12
.B ED
The default program to use for the editor.
.TP
.B EDITOR
This environment variable is used to specify an editor program when
\fIED\fP is not set.
.TP
.B LINES
This environment variable sets the number of terminal lines to be used by the
program.
If the number of terminal lines is given on the command line,
then that value is used instead of this environment variable.
.TP
.B BBNEWSRC
This environment variable, if specified, gives the name of the user's newsgroup
list file.
If this variable is not specified, then the default file
.MW ${HOME}/.bbnewsrc
is used.
The user's newsgroup list file
can also be specified on the command line with the
.MW -u
\fIuser_news_file\fP option.
.TP
.B BBOPTS
This environment variable contains user preference options for
use in one or more of the bulletin board system commands.
Currently only the
"
.MW -edit
" option for the program \fIbbpost\fP is supported.
.TP
.B BBBDS
This environment variable contains a
list of the newsgroups subscribed to, separated by a colon (':') character.
As mentioned previously, the list of newsgroups that the \fIbb\fP
program uses is a union of the list of newsgroups in this environment
variable along with the list of newsgroups in the user's newsgroup
list file (usually
.MW ${HOME}/.bbnewsrc
) which are followed
by colon characters rather than exclamation point characters.
.TP
.B PRINTER
This variable should contain the printer destination for the user's default
printer.
This environment variable is used by the \fIprt-pcsmail\fP
program.
If this variable is not set, then some sort of default
is used but this is almost guaranteed to not be what the user wants.
.TP
.B BBDIR
This environment variable is used primarily for system testing
or for a user to have some sort of private newsgroup spool
area.
Otherwise, this variable should be unset or left alone.
When used, this variable should hold the directory path to the
top of the
newsgroup spool area
(usually determined by the system administrator).
A typical location for this is
.MW ${PCS}/spool/boards.
The path to the newsgroup spool area can also be set with the
command line option
.MW -N
\fInews_spool_dir\fP.
.TP
.B BBPRTCMD
This environment variable can hold the name of an alternative print
spool up command for use by the
.MW print
command within the
.MW bb
program while reading news articles.
.TP
.B PCS
This environment variable is used to point to the PCS package directory.
This is usually at
.MW /usr/add-on/pcs
but may not be on some
systems.
Not all programs in the PCS tool set may be safely
relocated by changing this environment variable.
Many PCS programs call other PCS utility programs and not all programs in
a set which performs a certain requested function may be
relocatable.
For proper user
operation, it is recommended that this environment variable always
point to the location of the properly installed system-wide PCS
package distribution directory.
This environment variable can be over ridden at program invocation
with the invocation argument
.MW -ROOT \fIprogramroot_directory\fP
where \fIprogramroot_directory\fP is the directory to over ride what
may be in the
.MW PCS
environment variable.
.\"_
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 30
${HOME}/.pcsprofile
default user's profile type file containing PCS related environment variables
.TP
${HOME}/.bbnewsrc
this is the user's default newsgroup list file when one is not specified on
the command line or in the environment variable
.MW BBNEWSRC
.TP
${HOME}/.user_bds
this is the user's default newsgroup list file when it is not specified
on the command line, in the environment variable
.MW BBNEWSRC
\&, and when the user does \fBnot\fP already have a
file named \fI.bbnewsrc\fP in her home directory
.TP
${HOME}/mail/bbtemp
user's default mailbox to receive articles scanned by the \fIbbr\fP
program
.TP
${HOME}/mail/new
user's default mailbox to receive articles "saved" by the user while
executing the \fIbb\fP
program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/bb
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/bbr
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/bbpost
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/rbbpost
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/datepost
executable program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/pcsngdir
utility program
.TP
${PCS}/bin/pcscl
utility program
.TP
${PCS}/src/bb
directory of source files
.TP
${PCS}/spool/boards
default newsgroup spool area directory
.TP
${PCS}/etc/bb/bbnames
This file should contain any names of popular hosts that are visible to
the entire organization that share the same newsgroup spool area.
Sometimes, when names are translated and dynamically mapped to find
connectivity, a host different than one specified as your main site
host could be contacted.
This file provides a means to properly identify
hosts that articles should NOT be forwarded to.
.TP
${PCS}/etc/bb/bbhosts
This is the file which specifies hosts that the current system should
forward articles to.
These hosts are usually neighboring sites.
It is not necessary to specify every site in your company here since
articles are flooded throughout the network similar to the way in which
NetNews articles are distributed.
Host names should usually be
flat names which usually represent the UUCP name of the target site.
If special additional dialing information needs to be provided
for properly contacting a host specified in the
.MW ${PCS}/etc/bb/bbhosts
file, the the UUCP flat machine node name should be put in this
file and any additional
dialing information should be put into the RSLOW
.MW dialtab
file which is part of the RSLOW transport subsystem.
Currently, all article distribution uses the RSLOW transport subsystem.
.PD
.\"_
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pcsmail(1), vmail(1), prt-pcsmail(1), msgs(1), news(1)
.\"_
.SH "ADMINSTATION SEE ALSO"
rslow(1), rshe(1), rex(1), pcscl(1)
.\"_
.SH "PCS BULLETIN BOARD ADMINISTRATOR"
.PP
David Morano and Mark Leeper
.\"_
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.PP
Many people have worked on the Personal Communication Services (PCS)
tools and at least a couple probably worked on the bulletin board
system.
Substantial bug fixes and improvements to the system have been
made by David Morano.
Special thanks are due to John Palframan
for believing in the PCS system of tools and utilities to keep
some of them alive and well in our computing environment.
Thanks are also due to Mark Leeper who is the official administrator
for routine maintenance of the bulletin board system and
the news spool area.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
current: David A.D. Morano
.PP
former: several
.\"_
.\"_
