'\" t
.TH PCSUUCPD 1 "1998-06-29" LOCAL
.SH NAME
pcsuucpd \- de-multiplexing super-server for a login protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.B pcsuucpd
.OP -d\fR[=\fItime\fP]\fP "" ] [
.OP -ra "" ] [
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.SS Introduction
.PP
This program is a de-multiplexing super-server for an INET login protocol.
The server uses the given username as a service name.
But the username is also looked up in a PASSWD database to verify
the subsequently provided password to authenticate the logging in user.
.\"_
.SS Options
There are some argument options that can be used to
provide values in addition to the standard way of supplying them.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB-d\fP[=\fIrun-duration\fP]
This will override any run-duration otherwise specified to the program.
arguments.
.TP 15
.OP -o " option(s)" ] [
Options can be specified in the form of key-value pairs, with the value
being optional.
.TP 15
.OP -ra "" ] [
This option ("Reuse-Address") is used to have the server reuse an IP address
that had been recently used (bound) to a previous program or server.
.RE
.\"_
.SS Output
.\"_
Any output from the program is from the sub-server that is spawned
given am acquired service specification.
.\"_
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.\"_
.LP
Some environment variables can be pre-arranged to modify the behavior
of the server.
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B PCSUUCPD_PROGRAMROOT
This environment variable is taken to contain
the program root over any other such environment variable.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.\"_
.TP 15
.B LOCAL
This environment variable is normally taken to contain
the program root.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.\"_
.TP 15
.B PROGRAMROOT
This environment variable is taken to contain
the program root if not other suitable environment variable
this this purpose are in the environment.
The \fB-R\fP argument overides this environment variable.
.TP 15
.B PCSUUCPD_OPTS
Options can be supplied in the form of key-value pairs, as if they
appeared among the program invocation arguments using the '-o' option.
.B PCSUUCPD_NAME
This environment variable can be used to change the "search-name" of
the server program.  
The search-name of a program is the name (a text
string) under which the program uses to search for any auxillary files,
such as default configuration files.
The default search-name of any program is usually the name (base-name)
under which it was invoked as.
.RE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
inetd(1m), tcpmuxd(1), fingers(1)
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
.LP
This program is currently located in \fC/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP
or possibly where ever "local" programs are stored on your system.
This is often at
.MW "${LOCAL}/bin"
on some systems.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
