'\" t
.TH PRTMIN 1 1995-02-13 "GBCS Hardware Group"
.SH NAME
prtmin \- print out mail messages to a printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR prtmin 
.OP -d "  dst" ] [
.OP -c "  copies" ] [
.OP -s "  sides" ] [
.OP -f "  form" ] [
.OP -p "  mode" ] [
.MW [
.I file(s) ...
.MW ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.SS Introduction
.PP
The \fIprtmin\fP program
is used on a UNIX (and remotely from DOS/MS-Windows) system to print almost
two normal sized pages of ordinary ASCII text onto a single side of the
paper.  
This command was written to emulate the old OPR "mini" type facility
which went away with the advent of lower cost more modest printers
and printing facilities.
This program takes some arguments similar to the 
UNISON command \fIprt\fP except that only the options specified in
this manual page are accepted.  Any option specified other than those
indicated above will cause the command to fail with an error message.
.\"_
.SS Options
.PP
Normally a \fB-d\fP option will be specified to select a
printer destination.  If this option is not specified, a default printer
may be chosen if the user has a default configured.
Default printers are configured on the Amdahls and the Suns by use of
the PRINTER environment variable and possibly the UNISON 
\fC${HOME}/.prt\fP 
file.  The UNISON 
\fC${HOME}/.prt\fP 
file is only used for option processing when the user has configured,
via her command execution search path (environment variable PATH),
to use the UNISON version of the \fCprt\fP command as the underlying
print command.  Other versions of 
the \fCprt\fP command can be used in the user's PATH as long as they
support the standard UNISON command options.
If a default printer is not explicitly defined
by the user, a default printer may still be assigned by either the
system from which the command is executed, the system on which the
printer spooler is running, or by some other not easily understood mechanism.
For these reasons, it is usually best for the user to have the PRINTER
environment variable defined or to specify the printer destination
on the command line with the \fB-d\fP option.
.PP
The \fB-c\fP option allows for the specification of the number of
copies of the mail message to print out.
.PP
The \fB-s\fP option allows for the specification of the number of
sides of paper to use for the printed out mail message.
Valid values associated with this option key are '\fB1\fP' and '\fB2\fP'.
If this option is not specified then the default number of sides
configured for the printer will be used.  For one-sided printers,
this value will be set to '\fB1\fP' regardless of the user
supplied value.
.PP
The \fB-f\fP option allows for the specification of the form type
used as the paper in the printer.  Forms vary from printer to printer
but some of the possible form values for this argument are:
.EX
hole
nohole
11x17
ledger
legal
.EE
.PP
The \fB-p\fP option specifies the print mode to be used.
Supported print modes are:
.EX
portrait
landscape
.EE
.\"_
.SS Output
The printed output of this program provides for about 90 lines per page
in a point size of about 8.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
print a file to the user's defauilt printer as specified in the
\f(CWPRINTER\fP environment variable:
.EX
\f(CWprtmin file\fP
.in -4
.sp
.IP \(rh 5
print a file to the printer specified on the command line:
.EX
\f(CWprtmin file -d \fIprinter\fP\fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
print the data from standard input:
.EX
\f(CWcat < file | prtmin -d gz3c4\fP
.EE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
readmail(1p), vmail(1p), prt(1), prtq(1), prtc(1), .prt(4)
.\"_
.SH CAVEATS
Not all platforms are supported equally with respect to
continued user control over the disposition of the print job
with respect to
being either monitored (\fIprtq\fP) or canceled (\fIprtc\fP).
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in \fC/usr/add-on/pcs/bin\fP
or possibly \fC/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP on some systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put a space between all option key letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
