.\"
.\"	Module:   prt.1, Level 3.21
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prt.1
.\"
.\"	Modified: 7/17/90  16:22:28
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:24
.\"
.ds Un \fIprt\fR
.ds PN \fIPRT\fR
.ds Pn \fIprt\fR
.ig
..
.TH PRT 1 "UNISON"
.SH NAME
prt \- print file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.tr ~
.B prt \c
[\c
.B \-B\c
]
[\c
.BI \-b "~bin"\c
]
[\c
.BI \-c "~copies"\c
]
[\c
.BI \-d "~dest"\c
]
[\c
.BI \-f "~form"\c
]
[\c
.B \-h\c
]
[\c
.BI \-j "~jobname"\c
]
[\c
\fB\-K \fI"KEYWORD value"\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-l "~language"\c
]
[\c
.B \-m\c
]
[\c
\fB\-o \fI"filter filter_options"\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-p "~printmode"\c
]
[\c
.B \-q\c
]
[\c
.BI \-s "~sides"\c
]
[\c
.BI \-u "~userid"\c
]
[\c   
.B \-z\c
]
[\c   
.B \-\c
]
[\c
\fI filename...\fR\c
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad b
.I \*(Pn
submits the named files and associated information (collectively
called a 
.IR request )
to be printed. 
If no filenames appear or - is specified,
.I \*(Un
reads standard input.
.IR \*(Pn
queues a request to be printed
when facilities become available.
The named files may be reused immediately without affecting the output.
User defaults for all options can be set up in a \fI.prt\fR file; otherwise,
system defaults are used.
.PP
.I \*(Pn
associates
a unique
ID
with each request
and prints it
to standard output.
This request ID
can be used later
to cancel
or find the status
of the request
(see \fIprtc\fR(1) and \fIprtstat\fR(1)).
.PP
For additional information about devices, destinations, defaults,
languages, etc., see \fIprtinfo(1)\fR.
.PP
The following options may appear in any order preceding the file names:
.TP 13
.BI \-B
Input data is binary - suppress the WARNING message that indicates the
input data contains non-printable characters.  Note: such a WARNING message
is displayed whenever \fIprt\fR detects that there are more than 25
non-printable characters in the input.
.TP 13
.BI \-b "\ string"
Forward output to
.IR string
where 
.IR string 
can be one of the following:
.TP 25
.in 6
\fIbin\fR	
Put the output in bin number \fIbin\fR (1 to 10 characters).  By default, the 
bin number is taken from the user's .prt file.
If it is not set, the bin is taken from the password file.
.TP 25
.in 6
\fB"#\fIIDNO"\fR	
Hold output in secure area, to be released to 
person bearing badge with \fIIDNO\fR, normally a 
payroll account number or social security number.  
The # symbol must be the first character in string.
.TP 25
.in 6
\fB"%\fIaddress"\fR	
Send the output to bin \fBMAIL\fP for delivery via 
company mail.   Use \fIaddress\fP as a string to specify 
the name and company mail address of the recipient to appear on 
the banner page.  The % must be the first character
in the address. Semicolons can be used to split 
the address string so that a multi-line address 
(maximum 7 lines) is displayed on the banner page.  
The \fB-d\fP option can be used to speed mail delivery 
by printing the job at a site near the 
recipient where it will enter the company mail for 
final delivery.
.TP 25
.in 6
Note that \fIprt\fR does NOT get the bin from the environment variable $BIN.
.TP 13
.BI \-c "\ n"
Make
.IR n
copies of the output.
The default is 1.
The maximum number of copies is 99.
.TP 13
.BI \-d "\ dest"
Print the output at destination \f2dest\f1.
\f2dest\f1 has two parts;
both parts can be given together, or either part can be given alone.
When specifying both parts, the \f2dest\f1 argument should appear
in the form \f2location\f1/\f2device\f1.
\f2location\f1 can be a network node name, a site code, or \fIfax\fR. 
\f2device\f1 can be a specific printer name, a generic device type, or
a fax phone number.
The two parts are separated by a slash ( / ).
.sp
When specifying \f2location\f1 alone, the slash is required.
When specifying \f2device\f1 alone, the slash is not necessary.
The default for \f2location\f1 is the network node name of the current system.
Examples of \f2dest\f1 are: \f3ho2g4, imagen1, i300, post, x9700, aps,
prism, hou2a/, ihuxj/, ho/, wh/, /i300, mh/i300, ih/im1, and
fax/2019491234\f1.
The \fIdevice\fR must be 8 characters or less.
.TP 25
.in 6
Note that \fIprt\fR does NOT get the dest from the environment variable $DEST.
.TP 13
.BI \-f "\ form"
Print on form \fIform\fR (1 to 8 characters). 
Examples of form names are:
.sp
.nf
.ta 20n 35n
\fBvg\fR	viewgraph or transparency
\fBhole\fR	paper with holes
\fBnohole\fR	paper with no holes
\fBlegal\fR	8 1/2 x 14 inch paper
\fBledger\fR	11 x 17 inch paper
\fBlibrary\fR	14 x 17 inch paper
.fi
.sp
\fBNote:  Forms are not usually set up for local printers, as Imagen or PostScript printers.  All forms may not be available for all printers.\fR
.TP 13
.BI \-h
Print full help message.
.TP 13
.BI \-j "\ jobname"
Use
.IR jobname
(1 to 14 characters) instead of the default
.IR requestid
on the banner page of the printout.
.TP 13
\fB\-K \fI"KEYWORD value"\fR
Specify a \fIkeyword\fR and \fIvalue\fR for device-dependent options.
The \fIkeyword\fR should be specified in upper-case.
Multiple -K options can be specified.
For more information on valid keywords, refer to the specific
device type manual page, such as \fIdevi300(5), devpost(5), devx9700(5)\fR.
Examples include:  -K"JOBHDR n", and -K"FILTEROPTS x9700 -s xr18".  
.TP 13
.BI \-l "\ language"
Identify the type of file by specifying
.IR language  
(1 to 14 characters).
If no language is specified, the input is assumed to 
contain ASCII text and should be printed as if on a generic line printer.
The standard input languages valid across most device types, are:
.sp
.nf
.ta 20n 35n
\fBprinter\fR	indicates the input contains ASCII text;
	input should be printed as if on a generic line printer
\fBtroff\fR	indicates the input contains output from the troff formatter
\fBnroff\fR	indicates the input contains output from the nroff formatter
\fBtroffin\fR	indicates the input contains troff input statements
\fBnroffin\fR	indicates the input contains nroff input statements
\fBmeta\fR	indicates the input is a DI3000 metafile
\fBnje\fR	indicates the input was submitted from MVS via NJE
\fBgr\fR	indicates the input contains gr input statements
\fBraw\fR	indicates the input requires no translation; 
	the input contains statements the device understands
.fi
.sp
Additional examples include \fBdimpress\fR, \fBpostscript\fR,
\fBpcpostscript\fR, \fBtektronix\fR and \fBdaisy\fR.

The language \fBpcpostscript\fR should be used for \fBPostScript\fR files
generated by MS-DOS\s-2\u\(rg\d\s+2 PC applications.
.TP 13
.BI \-m 
Send a reply via electronic mail to report job completion.
The default is that no mail is sent.
Error messages will always be mailed.
.TP 13
\fB\-o \fI"filter filter_options"\fR
Specify a filter and device dependent options.  
Examples of filters are:  \fBdimpress\fR and \fBx9700\fR.
For more information on valid 
\fIfilter_options\fR, see the specific filter man page.
Multiple \fB-o\fR options can be specified.  A pipeline of filter commands will be
created in the order the \fB-o\fR options are specified.
.sp
\fBThis option will be phased out in a future release.\fR
See the -K option to specify device-dependent options.
If desired, you can specify the filter and filter_options
by using \fB-K"FILTEROPTS \fIfilter filter_options".\fR
.TP 13
.BI \-p "\ printmode"
Print in the mode \fIprintmode\fR. Examples of printmodes are
.nf
.ta 20n 35n
\fBport\fR\fIrait\fR	8.5 x 11 inches, letter orientation
\fBland\fR\fIscape\fR	11 x 8.5 inches
\fB2on1\fR	2 logical pages on 1 physical side
.fi
.TP 13
.BI \-q
Quiet.
Suppress the one-line message which contains the submitted request ID
and/or job name.
.TP 13
.BI \-s "\ sides"
Print on \fIsides\fR sides of a sheet of paper.  Examples 
are \fB-s1\fR and \fB-s2\fR.  Note:  Two-sided output is only available
at sites that have devices that support the duplexing feature.
.TP 13
.BI \-u "\ userid"
Print \fIuserid\fR (1 to 14 characters) on the banner page.
.TP 13
.BI \-z
Write the request to standard output instead of submitting it. 
A request header showing the defaults will be listed
along with the user's data.
This option is used primarily for debugging.

.SH EXAMPLES
To print a file (using all the default settings):
.nf
	\fBprt \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To print a file at another location, for example, \fIIH\fR: 
.nf
	\fBprt -d ih/     \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To print a file on a specific printer named \fIimagen1\fR at another 
location, \fIMH\fR,
.nf
	\fBprt -d mh/imagen1 \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To print a file with line numbers:
.nf
	\fBpr -n \fIfilename \fB| prt\fR 
.fi
.sp
To expand input tabs to character positions 10, 19, 28, 37 ...
and print the file:
.nf
	\fBpr -e9 \fIfilename \fB| prt\fR  
.fi
.sp
To print a file containing PostScript language on printer called \fIqms-a\fR,
.nf
	\fBprt -d qms-a -l postscript \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To print 3 copies of a file without the banner page to device \fIbrains\fR,
.nf
	\fBprt -c3 -K"JOBHDR n" -d brains \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To print a file on the Xerox 9700 in portrait mode, using font style XR18:
.nf
	\fBprt -d x9700 -p port -K "FILTEROPTS x9700 -s xr18"  \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
See also .prt(4) for setting your own printing defaults.
.sp
.SH FILES
$HOME/.prt
$UNISONTABLES/.prtsys
.in
$UNISON/*
.in
/etc/passwd	
.SH SEE ALSO
prtfmt(1), prtinfo(1), prtstat(1), prtc(1), .prt(4), .prtsys(4), devi300(5), 
devpost(5), devprism(5), devstare(5), devx9700(5), dev3203(5), devhp(5).
.\"_
.\"_
