.\"_
.TH MD5 1 "1997-12-16" LOCAL
.SH NAME
md5 \- create an MD5 message digest
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B md5
.OP -V "" ] [
.OP -? "" ] [
.OP -q "" ] [
.OP -v "" ] [
.OP -x "" ] [
.OP -t "" ] [
[filename]
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.SS Introduction
.PP
This program is used to create an MD5 message digest from the content of
a file or standard input.
If a filename is given on the invocation, then it is used as the input
to the digest process, otherwise standard input is read up to an EOF
as the input to the digest process.
In all case, the output of the digest (the digest itself) is written
to standard output.  See RFC312 for more information on what a message
digest is and what the MD5 digest process is in particular.
In short, these message digests are used in security situations
where one party wants to know the identity of the other party they
may be talking to.  This is a crude example of what a message digest might
be used for.
.\"_
.SS Options
.IP "-V" 10
This option prints to standard error the version of the program.
.IP "-?" 10
This option prints out to standard error a brief description of
the program's invocation options.
.IP "-q" 10
This option causes the program to not print out error messages
when an error occurs.  This invokes "quiet" mode.
This option is usually used when this program is called from other
programs.
.IP "-v" 10
This option causes additional output to be provided for certain
operations (verbose extraneous output).
.IP "-x" 10
This option invokes a special internal test mode to compare the
operation od this program with the provided test output contained in
RFC1321.
.IP "-t" 10
This option is used to run the time trial similar to the time
trial of the MD5 test driver program provided in the appendix of RFC1321.
.IP "filename" 10
If a file name (and only one file name) is specified on the invocation,
then it is used as the input data to the digest process.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.IP \(rh 5
To create a message digest using the entire contents of a file named "hello",
use a command onvocation like :
.EX
md5 hello > out.digest
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To create a message digest of data feed to the program via a pipe or
socket, or something similar, use an invocation similar to :
.EX
md5 > out.digest
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To print out the RFC1321 test suite data (calculated by this
implementation of MD5), use :
.EX
md5 -x
.EE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
crypt(1)
.\"_
.SH CAVEATS
This program is currently only compiled for Solaris 2.x 
(UNIX System V Release 4).
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
\fC/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP on most systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put a space between all option key letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH "PROGRAM AUTHOR"
.PP
Dave Morano
.\"_
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.PP
Most of this program was provided in the appendix of RFC1321.
.\"_
.\"_
