.\"_ 
.TH DMAIL 1 "1988-11-28" PCS
.SH NAME
dmail, dmailbox \- program for processing local mail messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_ 
.BR dmail
.RI [ recipient(s) ]
.OP -f " from" ] [
.OP -s " subject" ] [
.in +2
.br
.OP -d "" ] [
.OP -o " option(s)" ] [
.OP -s " protocol" ] [
.OP -pm " program-mode" ] [
.OP -sn " search-name" ] [
.in -2
.br
.BR dmailbox
.RI [ recipient(s) ]
.OP -f " from" ] [
.OP -s " subject" ] [
.OP -m " mailbox" ] [
.in +2
.br
.OP -o " option(s)" ] [
.OP -s " protocol" ] [
.OP -pm " program-mode" ] [
.OP -sn " search-name" ] [
.in -2
.\"_
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.LP
These programs perform the low-level mail-message delivery function.
The
.B dmail
program performs delivery to the system mail-spool deliver area.
The
.B dmailbox
program performs delivery to a specific mailbox of a specified user.
One or more optional recipients can be specified for 
{delivery (with either program).
If no recipients are specified, a default recipient is used corresponding
to the user inboking the program.
Mail messages (optionally more than one in UNIX® MAILBOX format) are provided
on standard-input.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH OPTIONS
.\"_
.LP
.TP 15
.BI \-f " from"
Specify an optional 
.MW from 
address.  
By default the "from" address is automatically determined and is
associated with the user invoking the program.
.TP
.BI \-s " subject"
An optional subject string can be specified.
The default is to use any subject which may already be present in the
mail message.
.TP
.BI \-m " mailbox"
For the
.B dmailbox
program, this option allows for an optional mailbox to be specified
to receive the mail message.
By default the target mailbox is 
.MW copy
\& .
.TP
.B \-d
This option is ignored for historical reasons.
.TP
.BI \-o " option(s)"
Options in the form of key-value pairs can be specified.
The value part can be omitted.
.TP
.BI \-p " protocol"
An optional "protocol" can be supplied specifying how this program was
called, not what this program will do.
.TP
.BI \-pm " program-mode"
Generally used for testing, the program-mode can be specified.
Valid program modes are: 
.MW dmail
, and 
.MW dmailbox
\&.
The program mode specifies what mode the program operates in.
.TP
.BI \-sn " search-name"
Generally used for testing, a program search-name can be specified.
Valid program modes are: 
.MW dmail
, and 
.MW dmailbox
\&.
The program search-name specifies under what name the program searches
for optional files (like a configuration file).
.\"_
.\"_
.SH FILES
.\"_
.LP
.TP 20
.B /var/mail
this is the default system mail-spool delivery directory
.TP 
.B /var/adm/mail
this is the default mail-spool delivery directory for mail that
cannot be delived normally (for whatever reason)
.PD
.\"_
.\"_
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR biff (1), 
.BR mail (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uux (1C),
.\"_
.\"_
.SH NOTES
.LP
This is a SETGID program and will not (likely) be able to access the
mail spool area for delivery if it is not installed SETGID.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
