'\" t
.TH NUMCVT 1 1985-11-02 "Gazelle Hardware"
.SH NAME
numcvt \- convert numbers from one number base to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR numcvt
.MW [
.IR value(s) ...
.MW ]
.OP -f "  argfile" ] [
.OP -i "  input_base" ] [
.OP -o "  output_base" ] [
.OP -v "" ] [
.\"_
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.\"_
.SS Introduction
.\"_
The 
.IB numcvt
program
is used on a UNIX system to convert numbers from one
number base to another.
Not all number bases are supposed.  
Only the bases 2, 8, 10, and 16 are currently supported.  
These bases are most useful for working with systems that are
represented in binary.
The default action of the program when invoked with no
arguments is to convert numbers on standard input (taken to
be in base 10 by default) to numbers in base 16 that are
printed on standard output.
.\"_
.SS Options
.\"_
Some options can be used to change the default behavior
of the program.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB-f\fP  \fIargfile\fP
This option can be used to specify a file that contains numeric values
to be converted.
.TP 15
\fB-i\fP  \fIinput_base\fP
This option is used to specify a default number base for input
values.  The following values are currently supported:
.EX
hexadecimal
decimal
octal
binary
16
10
8
2
.EE
.TP 15
\fB-o\fP  \fIoutput_base\fP
This option is used to specify a default number base for output
values.  The following values are currently supported:
.EX
hexadecimal
decimal
octal
binary
16
10
8
2
.EE
.TP 15
\fB-V\fP  
This option causes the program to print its program version
to standard error and then the program exits.
.RE
.\"_
.SS Operation
.\"_
The default behavior of the program, when invoked with no
arguments, is to convert numbers read from standard input (taken to
be in base 10 by default) to numbers in base 16 that are
printed on standard output.
The default input number base can be changed with the
.BI -i
option (described above).
The default output number base can be changed with the
.BI -o
option (described above).
Input numbers can always be specified in a desired number base,
overriding the default input base, by specifying them
with a number base prefix.  The following prefixes are
supported:
.EX
\&\\x
\&\\d
\&\\o
\&\\b
\&\\x
.EE
These specify the number bases 16, 10, 8, and 2 respectively.
The special input number prefix
.EX
0x
.EE
is also supported and can be used to specify a base 16 number.
.PP
The output numbers do not have any prefixes on them.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"_
.IP \(rh 5
read input numbers in base 10 and convert them to base 16:
.EX
\f(CWnumcvt \fP
.EE
.\"_
.IP \(rh 5
convert a base 2 number to base 16:
.EX
\f(CWnumcvt \\x010101\fP
.EE
.\"_
.IP \(rh 5
convert a base 16 number to base 10:
.EX
\f(CWnumcvt -o dec \\x00027 \fP
.EE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
bc(1), dc(1), bs(1), units(1)
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
\f(CW /usr/add-on/local/bin \fP
or possibly where ever
.IB local
programs are stored on your system.
This is often at
\f(CW "${LOCAL}/bin" \fP
on some systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put at one space between all option key 
letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
