'\" t
.TH MKINCFILE 1 1985-11-02 "Gazelle Hardware"
.SH NAME
mkincfile \- create an include file with the contents of another file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR mkincfile
.\"_
.OP -v "" ] [
.OP -V "" ] [
.IR file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.SS Introduction
.PP
The \fImkincfile\fP program
is used on a UNIX system to read the contents of the file
specified as an argument and to write its binary contents
into a C language array in a newly created C language include file.
.\"_
.SS Options
There is only one useful option.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB-v\fP  
This option turns on a summary of the output include file 
that was created.  The name of the output include file and
the number of input file bytes writen is reported.
.TP 15
\fB-V\fP  
This option causes the program to print its program version
to standard error and then the program exits.
.RE
.\"_
.SS Output
The program creates and output file which is a C language include
file.  The name of the output include file is automatically
determined by the name of the input file.
Only the last component of the input filename path is used.
The output include filename will be the characters 'incfile_'
followed by the last component of the input file, followed by
the characters '.h'.
.\"_
.SS "Using From C Language"
.\"_
From within a C language program, the contents of the
original file can be accessed through
.IB including
the output C language include file that is created by the program.
This C language include file will have a single #define name
as follows.  It will have the characters 'INCFILELEN_', followed
by the name of the original input file (case is significant).
The data itself (the contents of the original input file)
are located in a constant unsigned character array with the symbol
name 'incfile_' followed by the name of the original inputfile
(again case is significant).
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
put the contents of the file named 'testfile' into a C language
include file:
.EX
\f(CWmkincfile testfile\fP
.EX
The name of the created output C language file will be 'incfile_testfile.h'
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
cat(1), cp(1)
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
\f(CW /usr/add-on/local/bin \fP
or possibly where ever
.IB local
programs are stored on your system.
This is often at
\f(CW "${LOCAL}/bin" \fP
on some systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put at one space between all option key 
letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
