.\"_
.TH RUNADVICE 1 "v0" "Starbase"
.SH NAME
runadvice \- run SysCAD ADVICE program with varying parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrunadvice\fP [ \fIrunfile\fP ]
.OP -o "  outfile" []
.OP -p[aram] "  param=p1,p2,..." []
[ \fB-V\fP ] [ \fB-D\fP | \fB-D=\fP\fIdebuglevel\fP ] [ \fB-?\fP ]
.br
.OP -CONFIG "  configuration_file" []
.OP -TMPDIR "  temporary_directory" []
.OP -ADVICE "  advice_program" []
.br
.OP -proc "  process,..." []
.OP -timestep "  step,..." []
.OP -timelen " length,..." []
.OP -temp "  temperature,..." []
.OP -pow "  voltage,..." []
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program is used to perform ADVICE runs on a circuit with
varying parameters of the run.  The most common aspects of an ADVICE
run that are varied are usually the technology \fBprocess\fP, \fBtemperature\fP,
\fBtimestep\fP, \fBtimelength\fP, and \fBpower supply voltage\fP.
This program can actually allow for the varying of any user created
parameter in an ADVICE run.  This program expects a number of pseudo
standardized files to be in the current directory which describe the
circuit to be simulated using ADVICE.  The files that are
expected to be created by the user are :
.RS
.TP 10
\f(CWrun.adv\fP
.TP
\f(CWparams.adv\fP (optional)
.TP
\f(CWcontrol.adv\fP
.TP
\f(CWmain.adv\fP
.RE
.sp 0.5
These files contain information that describe the circuit to be
simulated along with any necessary subcircuits that ADVICE will
need to simulate the "main" circuit.  These files, along with others,
are described further in a section below.
.\"_
.SS \fBArgument Key Options\fP
.PP
The following keyed options are available for specifying
execution behavior of the program.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B -?
The \fB-?\fP is a standard option which causes the program to
terminate with a message printed to standard error giving a brief
explanation
of the program.  This is useful when the user forgets the
exact syntax of the program's arguments and does not want to
consult the manual page.
.TP
.B -V
The \fB-V\fP option causes the program to write out to standard
error the version of the program.  The program will then terminate.
.TP
.B -D
The \fB-D\fP option enables the printing of some debugging information
to the standard error.  This optional option can (optionally) be
followed by a debug level.  A specification of the debuglevel 
is given on the command in the
form \f(CB-D=\fP\fIdebuglevel\fP.  Specifying this option without the
debug level is equivalent to specifying debugging with a debug level
of one (1).  This option is essentially useless except for
the program developer.
.TP
.B -o \fIoutput_file\fP
The \fB-o\fP key letter option is used to specify an ADVICE output
file to receive the results of all ADVICE execution outputs.
The output file only is tracked correctly when the user uses
the \f(CBOUTFILE\fP variable in the ADVICE run file.
.TP
.B -param \fIparameter\fP=\fIvalue_list\fP
This option allows the user to specify (introduce) a variable, denoted
by \fIparameter\fP above, along with a list of associated
values.  These values will be used, along with all other parameter
values to create enough ADVICE runs to cover all combinations of
the values.  The \fIvalue_list\fP above takes the form of
comma separated list of value items.
.TP
.B -CONFIG \fIconfiguration_file\fP
This option allows the user to specify a configuration file.
This file can contain defaults for substitutable parameters as
well as some other information.  See a sample configuration file
for more information about what can be specified in it.
.TP
.B -TMPDIR \fItemporary_directory\fP
This option allows the user to specify an alternate temporary
directory for use by \fIrunadvice\fP when creating temporary files.
.TP
.B -ADVICE \fIADVICE_program\fP
This option allows the user to specify an alternate ADVICE program
to run instead of the default ('\f(CBrunadvice_advice\fP') or
that specified in the \fIRUNADVICE_ADVICE\fP environment variable.
.RE
.\"_
.PP
In addition to the options already described, a small set of
options are recognized by the program for the added convenience of
the user.  The following argument option keywords are
recognized :
.RS 5
.TP 20
.B -proc \fIprocess_value_list\fP
This is the same as \f(CW-param proc=\fP\fIprocess_value_list\fP
had been given on the command line.
.TP
.B -timestep \fItimestep_value_list\fP
This is the same as \f(CW-param timestep=\fP\fItimestep_value_list\fP
had been given on the command line.
.TP
.B -timelen \fItimelen_value_list\fP
This is the same as \f(CW-param timelen=\fP\fItimelen_value_list\fP
had been given on the command line.
.TP
.B -temp \fItemperature_value_list\fP
This is the same as if \f(CW-param temp=\fP\fItemperature_value_list\fP
had been given on the command line.
.TP
.B -pow \fIpower_supply_voltage_value_list\fP
This is the same as 
if \f(CW-param pow=\fP\fIpower_supply_voltage_value_list\fP
had been given on the command line.
.\"_
.RE
.\"_
.SH "ADVICE Circuit Files"
.PP
There are a number of files expected by this program to
describe the circuit to be simulated.  These files are listed
below.  All of the files (ADVICE Circuit Files) discussed below are
processed by \fIrunadvice\fP for substitutable parameter variables.
.\"_
.SS \fBADVICE Run File\fP
.PP
This file, usually named \f(CWrun.adv\fP, contains ADVICE commands
to set libraries, read in a circuit file, specify ADVICE output
files, and the like.  This file is not strictly a circuit file
in that no ADVICE circuits (as far as I am aware) are allowed in this
file.  This file is what is read by ADVICE on its invocation and must
contain the proper ADVICE commands appropriate to the user's simulation
objective.
.PP
This file is specified as \fIrunfile\fP on the command line.
If this is omitted from the command line, then standard input is read
as the run file instead.  If this file is given as a dash ('-') character,
standard input is read also.  A good example of this file would have
substitutable parameters for anything that the user wants to be
varied by the \fIrunadvice\fP program.  A list of the standard and popular
parameter variables are described in a later section.
This file is processed for \fIrunadvice\fP variable parameters.
.\"_
.SS \fBADVICE Parameter (\fP\f(CWparams.adv\fP\fB) File\fP
.PP
This file contains ADVICE commands.
An ADVICE parameter file (which is optional) usually contains ADVICE
variables specified as an ADVICE line of the form :
.EX
{ termvolt = 2.1 }
.EE
In order to have the \fIrunadvice\fP program vary ADVICE variables,
an ADVICE line of the form :
.EX
{ termvolt = $(TERMVOLT) }
.EE
would be used.  More on the use of the \fIrunadvice\fP variables is
described later.
As already alluded to, 
this file is processed for \fIrunadvice\fP variable parameters.
.\"_
.SS \fBADVICE Control File\fP
.PP
This file, made up of ADVICE commands, usually contains 
an include (realized with the ADVICE \f(CB.use\fP command)
of the "main" ADVICE circuit file.
Other includes are usually located in this file also like for
example the inclusion of other necessary subcircuits which are
not included into the ADVICE run in any other way.
This file is processed for \fIrunadvice\fP variable parameters.
.\"_
.SS \fBADVICE Main Circuit File\fP
.PP
This file usually contains the circuit to be simulated proper.
Usually, at least the "main" circuit of an ADVICE run is located in
this file but other ADVICE subcircuits can be included with the main circuit.
ADVICE subcircuits are normally included when this file is created
with a connectivity generator such as the one in SysCAD SCHEMA.
This file is processed for \fIrunadvice\fP variable parameters.
.SH \fBADVICE Output File\fP
.PP
An \fIoutfile\fP argument following the \fB-o\fP option key
letter specifies the file which is to receive the output of
all of the ADVICE runs.  All run outputs are placed into
this file so that when read into a reader program like ADVPLOT, the individual
run outputs appear numbered.
.\"_
.\"_
.SH "RUNADVICE Variable Parameters"
.PP
Several of the standard files above, those indicated as such,
are processed for parameter substitution.  Variable parameters
can be introduced into the files by including variable references
in the form :
.EX
$(\fIvariable\fP)
.EE
Where \fIvariable\fP can be any user created variable.
These variables are searched for and replaced by a combination
of values such that all combinations of the variables given
on the command line get a corresponding ADVICE simulation run.
Some variable names have special meaning and cannot be used by
the user for any other purpose.  The variables with special
meanings are :
.RS 5
.TP 20
CONTROLCKT
This variable parameter gets replaced with the name of a modified
\f(CWcontrol.adv\fP file.
.TP
MAINCKT
This variable parameter gets replaced with the name of a modified
\f(CWmain.adv\fP file.
.TP
PARAMS
This variable parameter gets replaced with the name of a modified
\f(CWparams.adv\fP file.
.TP
OUTFILE
This variable parameter gets replaced with the name of a temporary output
file whose contents are eventually added to the user specified output
file or to the default output file.
.RE
.sp 0.5
.PP
In addition to the special \fIrunadvice\fP variables described so far,
the following variables are defaulted internally to the \fIrunadvice\fP
program if the user does not supply them :
.RS 5
.TP 20
PROC
This variable will hold a string specifying a certain technology processing
to be used in the simulation.  This variable would be used as
part of a library specification.
.TP
TEMP
This variable will hold the simulation temperature.
.TP
TIMESTEP
This variable will hold a time step value like as for a transient
analysis.
.TP
TIMELEN
This variable will hold a time duration like as for a transient analysis.
.TP
POW
This variable will hold a power supply voltage value.
.RE
.sp 0.5
Currently, all parameter names given by the user are converted to 
uppercase before being used further.  In addition, the user should only
put uppercase environment variables inside of the ADVICE files
processed by \fIrunadvice\fP.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.IP \(rh 5
To run a circuit with variations on technology process (identified as
\fBan\fP, \fBal\fP, and \fBah\fP) the following would be executed :
.EX
runadvice run.adv -param proc=al,an,ah
.EE
This will produce three ADVICE runs, one for each technology process
specified.
.\"_
.IP \(rh 5
To run a circuit with variations on technology process (identified as
\fBan\fP, \fBal\fP, and \fBah\fP) and power supply voltage, execute :
.EX
runadvice run.adv -param proc=al,an,ah -param pow=3.0,3.3,3.6
.EE
This will produce nine ADVICE runs.
.\"_
.IP \(rh 5
To run a simulation on a circuit with variations on 
technology process (identified as
\fBan\fP, \fBal\fP, and \fBah\fP), power supply voltage, and
termpature, execute :
.EX
runadvice run.adv -param proc=al,an,ah -param pow=3.0,3.3,3.6 -param temp=25,85
.EE
This will produce eighteen ADVICE runs.
.\"_
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
The following environment variables
tailor some aspect of the program to the
user's preferences.
.TP 12
.B TMPDIR
This environment variable will direct the program to
create temporary files in the directory specified.  Any specification
of a temporary directory that is given on the command line will
override this variable.  If this variable is not set, and no directory
is given on the command line, the directory \f(CW/tmp\fP will be
used for temporary files.
.TP
.B RUNADVICE_CONFIG
This environment variable contains the name of a configuration file
to be used by the 
program for default substitution parameters and some other things.  
If any configuration file is specified on the invocation command, then
that file is used instead of the one in this environment variable.
.TP
.B RUNADVICE_ADVICE
This environment variable contains the name of the ADVICE (or ADVICE like)
program to execute.  If the ADVICE program is specified on the command
line, this variable is ignored.
.\"_
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 20
run.adv
default ADVICE "run" file
.TP
params.adv
default circuit parameter file ; this file usually contains
ADVICE parameter assignments
.TP
control.adv
circuit control file ; this file usually contains a series of
ADVICE "\f(CW.use\fP \fIfile\fP" lines to include subcircuits not otherwise
included in the run
.TP
main.adv
default main circuit file ; this file should usually contain an
ADVICE circuit beginning with "\f(CW.main\fP  \fIcircuit_name\fP"
and ending with a "\f(CW.end\fP".
.TP
main.out
default output file ; can be changed with the \fB-o\fP option on
the command line
.TP
runadvice_advice
default ADVICE program executed by this program ; the user's current
execution PATH is searched for this program ; this program can be
changed either through the environment variable RUNADVICE_ADVICE
or on the command line
.PD
.\"_
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
Currently, the names of the ADVICE circuit 
files (\f(CWparams.adv\fP, \f(CWcontrol.adv\fP,
\f(CWmain.adv\fP) cannot be specified on the command line.
The names can be changed if the user puts the appropriate control
lines in a configuration file.  In the future, alternate names for
these files may be specified on the command line.
.\"_
.SH "SEE ALSO"
eas(1)
.\"_
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
D.A. Morano
.\"_
.SH SAMPLES FILES
.PP
A sample RUNADVICE configuration file is shown below :
.EX
\&# CONFIG.RA
\&#
\&# This is a configuration file for the RUNADVICE program.
\&#
\&#
\&# Valid Entries :
\&#
\&#	keyword		parameters
\&#--------------------------------------------------------------------------
\&#
\&#	advice		ADVICE program
\&#
\&#	export		an environment variable name followed by a value
\&#
\&#	default		a parameter name followed by one or more values
\&#			in a list separated by commas
\&#
\&#	control		the name of the ADVICE 'control.adv' like file
\&#
\&#	params		the name of the ADVICE 'params.adv' like file
\&#
\&#	main		the name of the ADVICE 'main.adv' like file 
\&#			containing the "main" circuit to be simulated
\&#
\&#	machine		this allows for the specification of available
\&#			machines ; only those machines listed are used
\&#
\&#
\&#
\&# NOTE about how the ADVICE files relate to each other :
\&#
\&#	The "run" file possibly specified on the command line
\&#	must read in a circuit file which will be in the "control"
\&#	file.  The "control" file can optionally contain a "params"
\&#	file included with an ADVICE '.use' command.  The "control"
\&#	file must include the "main" file with an ADVICE '.use'
\&#	command.  The four files, "run", "control", "params", and "main"
\&#	are processed for parameters substitutions.
\&#
\&#
\&#
\&
\&
\&# ADVICE program
\&#advice		runadvice_advice
\&
\&export 		TMPDIR=/proj/starbase/tmp
\&export 		SEEMEHERE=/proj/starbase/tmp
\&
\&default		proc=an
\&default		temp=85
\&default		timestep=0.1n
\&default		timelen=5n
\&default		pow=3.3
\&default		vterm=1.2
\&default		subnch=0.0
\&
\&
\&
\&# ADVICE files processed (in addition to "run") for parameter substitutions
\&control		control.adv
\&params		params.adv
\&main		main.adv
\&
\&
\&# machine entries
\&#
\&#	These entries have the form :
\&#
\&#		keyword		name	load_capability
\&#
\&#	where :
\&#
\&#		<keyword>		is always 'machine'
\&#
\&#		<name>			is the name of the machine
\&#
\&#		<load_capability>	is a number that rates the ability
\&#					of the machine to run jobs as
\&#					compared with the other mahcines
\&#
\&
\&# our System V machines
\&
\&machine		hodia=2.0
\&machine		hodid=2.0
\&machine		hodif=0.8
\&
\&# our BSD machines
\&
\&#machine		hodig=0.8
\&#machine		octet=2.0
\&
\&
.EE
.\"_
.\"_
.PP
A sample run file is shown here.
.EX
\&* ADVICE run file
\&*
\&* ADVICE run file which is executed from the the X Windows menu
\&*
\&*
\&*	The following character strings get substituted for :
\&*
\&*		PROC		process
\&*		TEMP		temperature
\&*		TIMESTEP	time step intervale
\&*		TIMELEN		time length
\&*		POW		power supply voltage
\&*
\&*
\&* here are some test substitutions :
\&*	PROC=$(PROC)
\&*	TEMP=$(TEMP)
\&*	TIMESTEP=$(TIMESTEP)
\&*	TIMELEN=$(TIMELEN)
\&*	POW=$(POW)
\&*
\&* and the circuit files :
\&*	MAINCKT=$(MAINCKT)
\&*	CONTROLCKT=$(CONTROLCKT)
\&*
\&*
\&*
\&* general library
\&*
\&.lib lib4=genlib.adv
\&*
\&*
\&* straight CMOS, 0.5um, 3.3 Volt
\&*
\&.lib lib1=cmos5_33$(PROC).adv
\&*
\&*
\&.use options.adv
\&*
\&*
\&.rd ${CONTROLCKT} ;n
\&*
\&.temp $(TEMP)
\&*
\&*
\&.opti rfile=init.adv
\&*
\&.opti pivot=1
\&.opti lvlprt=3
\&*
\&.opti itl1=500
\&.opti ipta=0
\&.dc op
\&.file rfile=winit.adv
\&*
\&*
\&.op * > op.results
\&*
\&.tran $(TIMESTEP) $(TIMELEN)
\&*
\&.file ofile=$(OUTFILE)
\&*
\&*
\&.end
.EE
.\"_
.PP
A sample control file is shown here.
.EX
\&* ADVICE circuit "control" file
\&
\&* .use skew2.adv
\&* .use ddlo_p.adv
\&.use constants.adv
\&.use $(PARAMS)
\&.use ${MAINCKT}
\&
\&
.EX
.\"_
.\"_
.PP
A sample ADVICE \fIparams\fP file is shown here.
.EX
\&* circuit parameters for ADVICE
\&*
\&*
\&.set { vterm=$(VTERM) }
\&.set { pow=$(POW) }
\&.set { subnch=$(SUBNCH) }
\&*
\&*
\&*
.EE
.\"_
.\"_
