.\"_
.TH PRCAT 1 1995-09-11 LOCAL
.SH NAME
prcat \- filter files formatted for a page into text with form-feeds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.B prcat
.OP -D "" ] [
.OP -V "" ] [
.OP -l "  page_length_lines" ] [
.OP -h "  blank_header_line" ] [
.OP -t "  blank_trailer_lines" ] [
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.SS Introduction
.PP
This program (\fBprcat\fP) reads standard input and filters it to have
form-feed characters in the appropriate places.  The input file
is expected to be in a very specifiic format.
The input file format is expected to be in the form as output from 
the \fBnroff\fP program or a \fBcatman\fP like program.
This is normally a file meant to be output directly to either
a CRT terminal screen or to an old fashioned impact type printer.
.PP
Although this command is matched by default to process the output
of the \fBtoolman\fP program, which is part of the \fBEXPTOOLS\fP
distribution, it can also be used to process other kinds of
input text.  The processing of input text other than the output
of the \fBtoolman\fP command usually requires the careful specification
of optional command line invocation argument options.
.\"_
.SS Options
.PP
.IP "-D" 10
This option turns the program debugging more on.
This is normally only used during the development of the
prgram and is not generally useful otherwise.
.IP "-V" 10
This option directs the program to output its version and then
exit.
.IP "-l" 10
This option is used to specify the length of pages in lines of the input text.
.IP "-h" 10
This option is used to specify the number of blank header lines on each page
that should be ignored.
.IP "-t" 10
This option is used to specify the number of blank trailer lines on each page
that should be ignored.
.IP "-a" 10
Occassionaly, maybe, the user might want to add lines to the top
of the output page.  This option can be used to specify how many
additional lines are to be added to the top of the page.
.\"_
.SS Execution
.P
A common example of how to use this program is:
.EX
toolman cmd | prcat | textset | troff -Tpost > cmd.troff
dpost -n2 < cmd.troff | prt -l post -d pr1
.EE
.PP
of error diagnostic may be given.
.PP
To sucessfully process files other than those that are output from the
EXPTOOLS \fBtoolman\fP program, the user should perform the following
steps:
.RS 5
.IP \(rh 5
Examine the source file to be processed (using 'vi' editor -- whatever)
and determine the page length stride (in lines) that the file has.
Note that some files have a different number of lines for the
first page as compared with the regular page-to-page stride.
Of course, many files will also have a different number of lines
for the last page but this is not problematic.
Note the determined stride as being the
.MW pagelength
parameter as input the
\fBprcat\fP
program.
.IP \(rh 5
Determine the number of lines from the trailing part of each
page that should be removed (dropped from the output).
This will be the
.MW taillines
parameter to the \fBprcat\fP program.
.IP \(rh 5
Determine how many leading (or header) lines should be removed
from the top of each page.  This will be the
.MW headlines
parameter to the program.
.IP \(rh 5
Finally, in certain rare circumstances, lines may have to be added
to the top of the output file.  This can be done using the
.MW "-a addlines"
option to the program.
.IP \(rh 5
The user can now invoke the program using the previously
determined values.  It is advisable to arrange for
the output of the formatter used to be viewed electronically
since this process is very error prone and usually plagued
by bad assumptions about the input file leading to misformatted
output.
.RE
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.IP \(rh 5
To print out an \fBEXPTOOLS\fP manual page to a Postscript printer
with one logical pages printed to single side of paper, execute:
.EX
toolman cmd | prcat | prt
.EE
.\_
.PP
.IP \(rh 5
To print out an \fBEXPTOOLS\fP manual page to a Postscript printer
with two logical pages printed onto a single page, execute:
.EX
toolman cmd | prcat | textset | troff -Tpost > cmd.troff
dpost -n2 < cmd.troff | prt -l post -d pr1
.EE
.\"_
.\"_
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
toolman(1), prt(1)
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
