.\"_
.TH PRTFMT 1 "1990-07-14" LOCAL
.SH NAME
prtfmt \- format and print output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.\"	Module:   prtfmt.1, Level 3.13
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prtfmt.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 7/14/90  16:25:49
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:25
.\"_
.ds Un \fIprtfmt\fR
.ds PN \fIPRTFMT\fR
.ds Pn \fIPrtfmt\fR
.if t .ds i \(fm\(fm
.if n .ds i ""
.\"_
\fBprtfmt\fR [\fB-F\fR "[\fIformatter\fR] \fIoptions\fR"] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-T \fIdevicetype\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-Z\fR] [\fIprt_options\fR] [\fB-\fR] [\fIfilename...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad b
.I \*(Un\^
provides a convenient way of building the necessary pipeline of
commands to produce text and/or graphics output.   
It can be used in place of commands such as \fImmx\fR(1) and \fImmt\fR(1).
.PP
.I \*(Un\^
automatically generates a pipeline of commands, including
pre-processors and formatters, as required by the file.
If the input file contains pre-processing statements
(\fIe.g.,\fR .TS/.TE, .EQ/.EN, .G1/G2, .GS/.GE .PS/.PE ), then the 
appropriate pre-processor (\fItbl, neqn/eqn, grap, gc/gc2pic, pic\fR)  
will be called automatically.
\*(Un provides suitable options for each command in the pipeline.
.PP
.I \*(Un\^ 
also selects the macros package (\fImm, man, mview, mv, mpictures, mcolor\fR)
according to the statements specified in the file.
.PP
If no filenames appear or \fB-\fR is specified,
.I \*(Un
reads standard input. 
.PP
The destination or printer name can be specified with the 
\fB-d\fR option (see \fIprt\fR(1)\fR).  If no \fB-d\fR option
is specified, \fBprtfmt\fR will automatically map the 
\fB-T\fR devicetype value to the \fB-d\fR option.  All locations
may not have a default printer defined for x9700, post, i300, etc.,
so it is recommended to specify a printer name if possible.
See examples below. 
.PP
Default options can be specified in the \fI$HOME/.prt\fR file (see \fI.prt\fR(4)).
.PP
The following options may appear in any order preceding the file names:
.TP 13
\fB\-F "[\fIformatter\fR] \fIoptions\fR"
Format the file using the specified program \fIformatter\fR.
Examples of formatters include \fBnroff\fR and \fBtroff\fR. 
The default formatter is \fBtroff\fR.
\fIoptions\fR can include any valid options for the formatter.
For more information on valid options, see the
manual page for the specific formatter.
.TP 13
.BI \-h
Print full help message.
.TP 13
.BI \-T "\ devicetype"
Format the output for device type \fIdevicetype\fR.  If no \fIdevicetype\fR 
is specified, output will be formatted to terminal.
Examples of \fIdevicetype\fR are:

.nf
\fBaps  \fR	Autologic APS-5 Phototypesetter
\fBi10  \fR 	IMAGEN Imprint 10
\fBi300 \fR	IMAGEN 8/300, 12/300
\fBpost \fR	PostScript printers
\fBhp   \fR	Hewlett-Packard Laserjet
\fBlp   \fR 	standard line printer
\fBprism\fR	PRISM
\fBx9700\fR	Xerox\s-2\u\(rg\d\s+2 9700 series
\fBterm \fR	terminal
.fi
.TP 13
.BI \-v
Verbose; show the pipeline of commands built but do not execute it.
.TP 13
.BI \-Z
Send output to \fIstdout\fR instead of piping it to \fIprt(1)\fR.
.TP 13
.I prt_options
See \fIprt\fR(1) 
for additional options.
.SH EXAMPLES
To generate a \fItroff\fR document containing tables 
on an PostScript printer named \fIdisney\fR, 
.nf
		\fBprtfmt -T post -d disney \fIfilename\fR

	Here is a sample pipeline of commands built by \*(Un which is written to standard error, 
		tbl \fIfilename\fR | troff -Tpost -mm | /usr/add-on/unison/bin/prt -d/disney -l troff 

	Also, the following message is written to standard output: 
		request 1234homxb submitted
.fi
.sp
To display a formatted document to your terminal,
.nf
		\fBprtfmt \fIfilename\fR
or
		\fBprtfmt -T term \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To generate a \fItroff\fR document on an IMAGEN device called \fIi300-a\fR
with special page numbering style,
.nf
		\fBprtfmt -T i300 -F "troff -rN3" -d i300-a \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To generate a one-sided document on paper without holes on a
Xerox high-speed printer at MH,  
.nf
		\fBprtfmt -T x9700 -s 1 -f nohole -d mh/x9700 \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To format a \fItroff\fR document for the \fIaps\fR device but
print it on an IMAGEN device called \fIzeus\fR,
.nf
		\fBprtfmt  -T aps  -d zeus \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To specifically request the \fBnroff\fR formatter and print
to a Xerox printer at IH:
.nf
		\fBprtfmt -T x9700 -Fnroff -d ih/x9700 \fIfilename\fR
.fi
.sp
To avoid the possible lengthy formatting time and free up your terminal,
process the request in the background:
.nf
		\fBprtfmt\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIfilename\fR &
.fi
.sp
To generate a \fItroff\fR document on a PostScript printer 
called \fIjargon\fR at WH and receive mail confirmation 
when the request has completed printing:
.nf
		\fBprtfmt -T post -m -d wh/jargon \fIfilename\fR 
.fi
.sp
To generate formatted output to an IMAGEN device called \fIruby\fR
but using special formatting such as \fIsdlpic\fR or a pipeline: 
.nf
		\fBsdlpic \fIfilename\fR | \fBprtfmt -T i300 -d ruby\fR
.fi
.sp
To redirect output to a file:
.nf
		\fBprtfmt  -T post  -Z  \fIfilename1\fB > \fIfilename2\fR 
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
prt(1), prtstat(1), prtc(1), nroff(1), troff(1), tbl(1), eqn(1), pic(1), grap(1), gc(1), .prt(4), .prtsys(4)
.SH WARNINGS
Files containing .sy or .pi macro statements will not be processed
when formatting is done on a remote system.
.SH BUGS
Files containing .BP macro statements will not be resolved
when formatting is done on a remote system.
.SH FILES
$HOME/.prt
.in
$UNISONLIB/.prtsys
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
