.\"_
.TH PRT-PCSMAIL 1 1995-02-13 PCS
.SH NAME
prt-pcsmail \- print out mail messages to a printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR prt-pcsmail
.OP -d "  dst" ] [
.OP -c "  copies" ] [
.OP -s "  sides" ] [
.OP -p "  mode" ] [
.OP -f "  form" ] [
.MW [
.IR file(s) ...
.MW ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.SS Introduction
.PP
The \fCprt-pcsmail\fP program
is used on a UNIX system to arrange to have one or more mail messages
printed out to a printer.  This program takes command line arguments
similarly to the 
UNISON command \fIprt\fP except that only the options specified in
this manual page are accepted.  Any option specified other than that
indicated above will cause the command to fail with an error message.
.\"_
.SS Options
.PP
Normally a \fB-d\fP option will be specified to select a
printer destination.  If this option is not specified, a default printer
may be chosen if the user has a default configured.
Default printers are configured on the Amdahls and the Suns by use of
the PRINTER environment variable and possibly the UNISON 
.MW ${HOME}/.prt
file.  The UNISON 
.MW ${HOME}/.prt
file is only used for option processing when the user has configured,
via her command execution search path (environment variable PATH),
to use the UNISON version of the \fIprt\fP command as the underlying
print command.  Other versions of 
the \fIprt\fP command can be used in the user's PATH as long as they
support the standard UNISON command options.
If a default printer is not explicitly defined
by the user, a default printer may still be assigned by either the
system from which the command is executed, the system on which the
printer spooler is running, or by some other not easily understood mechanism.
For these reasons, it is usually best for the user to have the PRINTER
environment variable defined or to specify the printer destination
on the command line with the \fB-d\fP option.
.PP
The \fB-c\fP option allows for the specification of the number of
copies of the mail message to print out.
.PP
The \fB-s\fP option allows for the specification of the number of
sides of paper to use for the printed out mail message.
Valid values associated with this option key are '\fB1\fP' and '\fB2\fP'.
If this option is not specified then the default number of sides
configured for the printer will be used.  For one-sided printers,
this value will be set to '\fB1\fP' regardless of the user
supplied value.
.PP
Briefly:
.IP "-p  \fImode\fP" 10
This specifies the print mode of the print job.  Possible values
are:
.EX
land
port
.EE
.IP "-f  \fIform\fP" 10
This specifies the print form to use for the job's output.
Common values are:
.EX
11x17
hole
nohole		(the default)
ledger
legal
11x14
.EE
Note that most printers now-a-days tend to completely ignore
these form requests except for maybe the
.MW 11x17
value
on some printers which are both capable of 11x17 output and
which have been properly configured to adjust to using its 11x17
paper tray in response to this form request.  Experience has
shown that this conditions are usually quite rare.
.PP
If no files are given on the command line then input from the standard
input is assumed.  If files are given, then no input is read.
.SS Execution
Typically, a user executes this command from within her mail reader 
program (such as the various PCS mail readers).  A mail message is usually
sent to this program's standard input using the mail reader program's
"pipe message" type of facility.  For PCS mail readers, a user
would use the mailer's "pipe" command (a '\fB|\fP' character for PCS VMAIL)
to send the current mail message to the standard input of this command.
.PP
The command can also print out mail messages that are written out into
UNIX files.  In this case a file containing a mail message previously
written out should be either directed to this program's standard input
(using the standard UNIX system command-line redirection convention) 
or explicitly specified on the command line.  In this latter case,
as many files containing mail messages as you want can be printed
out.  Each mail message in a file will be printed out separately
as an individual mail message.  Mail messages from multiple file
are never concatenated before printing.
.SS Output
The printed output of this program provides for a "prettied" up
version of the mail message with the \f(CWFROM\fP address (the person
who sent you the mail message) distinctly displayed at the top
of the printout along with the original \f(CWSUBJECT\fP of the
original mail message.  The output is in a landscape orientation
suitable for printing as much information on a single piece of
paper as possible.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
print a mail message from within PCS \fBreadmail\fP to user's default
printer:
.EX
\f(CW? \fP\fB| prt-pcsmail\fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
print a mail message from within PCS \fBvmail\fP to user's default
printer:
.EX
\f(CW? \fP\fB|\fP
.br
\f(CWenter command to pipe message to: \fP\fB prt-pcsmail\fP
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
have a mail message in a file named \fIseeya\fP printed out
to printer \fIgz3c4\fP:
.EX
\f(CW$ \fP\fBprt-pcsmail seeya -d gz3c4 \fP
.EE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IP PRINTER 20
This variable, if defined and exported, will be used for a default
printer if one is not specified on the command line.
.SH SEE ALSO
readmail(1p), vmail(1p), prt(1), prtq(1), prtc(1), .prt(4)
.SH CAVEATS
Not all platforms are supported equally with respect to
continued user control over the disposition of the print job
with respect to
being either monitored (\fIprtq\fP) or canceled (\fIprtc\fP).
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in \f(CW/usr/add-on/pcs/bin\fP
or possibly \f(CW/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP on some systems.
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put a space between all option key letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
