.\"_
.TH look 1 "1993-06-14" LOCAL
.SH NAME
look \- display lines beginning with a given string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.so tmac.att
.\"_
.BR look
.OP -d "" ] [
.OP -f "" ] [
.OP -t " termchar" ] [
.IR string
.RI [ file ]
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.MW look
utility displays any lines in
.IR file
that contain
.IR string
as a prefix.
As
.MW look
performs a binary search, the lines in
.IR file
must be sorted.
.PP
If
.IR file
is not specified, the file
.MW /usr/share/dict/words
is used, only alphanumeric characters are compared and the case of
alphabetic characters is ignored.
.PP
Options:
.\"_
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB-d\fP 
Dictionary character set and order: only alphanumeric characters
and the blank (space) character
are compared.
.TP 15
\fB-f\fP 
Ignore the case of alphabetic characters.
.TP 15
\fB-t\fP \fItermchar\fP
Specify a string termination character, i.e. only the characters in
.IR string
up to and including the first occurrence of
.IR termchar
are compared.
.TP 15
\fB-w\fP 
Match only whole words rather than leading parts of words.
.TP 15
\fB-V\fP 
Print the program version to standard-error and then exit.
.RE
.\"_
.PP
The
.MW look
utility exits with 
.MW 0 
if one or more lines were found and displayed,
It exits with
.MW 1
if no lines were found, and greater than
.MW 1
if an error occurred.
.\"_
.SH FILES
.PP
.MW /usr/add-on/ncmp/dict/words
or
.MW /usr/share/dict/words
are default dictionary files
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.MW grep(1),
.MW sort(1)
.\"_
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The original manual page stated that tabs and blank characters participated
in comparisons when the
.MW d
option was specified.
The current implemtnation only compares alphanumeric and the blank (space)
character when "dictionary" order comparison is in effect (both by default
and when the 
.MW d
option is specified).
.\"_
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.MW LOOK
program first appeared in the UNIX System Version 7.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
David A.D. Morano
.\"_
.\"_
